15 Year Journey is a free Marketplace map developed by Oreville Studios that celebrates Minecraft's 15th anniversary. The map consists of seven main areas, each with varying minigames and trivia on the game's history. The map was released on May 20, 2024, as part of the sixth day of 15 Days of Minecraft.


== Courtyard ==
Upon starting the map, the player is greeted with a cutscene of Steve inviting Alex, Efe, and Zuri into a large garden outside the museum, before being greeted by the Party Villager. Walking forward toward the museum, the player finds many visual gags. An iron golem dressed as a security guard is circling a fountain, while a ravager is cowering on top of it, the golem seemingly annoyed by the situation. Many parrots are dancing on top of a bench and bunting, nearby several illager thieves trying to help one of theirs climb down from a rope, offering water buckets. Makena is trying to take a photo of a black cat, a witch, a warden, and a cow, telling them "everyone line up and say "Creeper", let's capture this moo-mentous moment! Give me your biggest smile and strike a pose!"
After climbing a set of stairs into the building, two more iron golem guards open the doors to the Hub, where the Party Villager is waiting for the player. Another cutscene follows, where the player is given the sticker book item, before the camera shows off the interior of the Hub, as the Party Villager proclaims "Happy birthday, Minecraft!"


== Hub ==

The Hub is the central area containing portals to all other six areas, with a gift shop in the center. Amongst the portals, many visual gags and Easter Eggs can be found. As the player enters, they can find a villager chasing a child in a circle, stuck on a balloon while Steve and Alex are reading the sticker book together. Behind them is a villager wearing a cake happily, while allays give many characters and mobs cake. Zuri, Kai, a chicken, and a pig are enjoying cake, only for a creeper to be startled when it is given a slice. At the same table, a wandering trader is given a full cake, which is taken by the trader's two llamas.
At another table, an enderman waits impatiently for a cake, before teleporting it away and eating under the stairs. A strider is overjoyed by cake, while a piglin flips it using their sword. Noor gestures for cake before tossing it upward and eating it whole, while Ari pats their stomach after eating and a skeleton shoots an arrow. Between both tables is a third table, where three bees are circling around a cake, eating it in quadrants. Efe waits patiently for cake before cheering when it arrives, while Sunny eats it the same way as Noor and a drowned eats it using a trident like a fork. Behind this table are many chef villagers and allays coming back and forth to deliver cake endlessly.
Between Alpha and Dimensions, a villager cries over a fallen cake. Between the Aquarium and Exploration, one villager is dancing, and another is trying to reach for a balloon. By Caves & Cliffs, one villager is holding too many presents.
Once the player has visited every area and returns to the hub, the player is rewarded with a short cutscene congratulating the player, credited to Oreville Studios. "You've visited all of the areas! What a journey! Thank you for celebrating 15 Years of Minecraft with us! We hope you had fun! We've had a wonderful time creating this project, and appreciate reviews! Let us know what you think! If you had fun, consider checking out more Oreville Studios content on the Marketplace to support us! Here's to 15 more years of Crafting, Mining, and Endless Creativity! Happy Birthday, Minecraft!"


=== Stickers ===
One sticker can be found here.


=== Gift Shop ===
In the center of the Hub is a gift shop, staffed by Party Villager. There, they are tasked with collecting all 53 stickers, being rewarded a different Baby Mob for each milestone. Across from the Party Villager, who helps keep count of stickers collected, there are two anvils with floating name tags, that the player can use to name Baby Mobs if desired. If they want to remove a baby pet, they are given an item that can despawn them while inside of the gift shop.


== The Aquarium ==

The player obtains a Camera after the entering the area, which can be used to photograph sea life and obtain their corresponding stickers. Upon getting the camera, the player can approach Steve at a banister, Alex on a bench, Noor gazing at aquatic mobs, Ari inside of a tunnel through the display near the heart of the sea exhibit, and a villager scuba diving inside of the display, near the dolphin exhibit. Inside the display itself, turtles, tropical fish, and dolphins swim around, with recreational conduits, shipwrecks, and tridents present. At the end of the hallway Ari is inside is a display of several coral blocks, with dancing glow squids and stairs to a second floor.
By the coral exhibit, Kai is sitting on a bench, and across from them is a marine biologist who explains coral bleaching. To the left of the biologist, Makena is at another display of fish in front of another display featuring guardians, drowned, and axolotls. Opposite to those is the Feeding Frenzy minigame, which can be initiated by a villager NPC. Down another flight of stairs, many more exhibits can be found, with Zuri admiring squids and Efe looking into the Feeding Frenzy minigame. Exiting from here returns the player to the entrance, but walking straight to the other side leads to a room with an animatronic guardian above the door.
Entering into the guardian room, the perspective changes to a locked, third person angle using the camera command. Inside the room is an elder guardian, whose eye watches the player as they cross. Outside of the guardian exhibit is Sunny, watching several turtles on a mock beach, while a dolphin tries to jump through hoops. Behind them is another shipwreck display, and then another glow squid display, which leads back to the marine biologist.


=== Stickers ===
Twelve stickers can be found here.


=== Exhibits ===


=== Feeding Frenzy ===

In Feeding Frenzy, the player mans a "Frog Blaster," a turret in the shape of a temperate frog, reminiscent of the game Hungry Hungry Hippos, above the frogs' exhibit. Several balloons begin to appear, which the player can collect using the frog's tongue. Slime Balloons score the player ten points, whereas Magma Balloons lose them twenty. After thirty seconds, the minigame ends, and the player is rewarded with the frog sticker.


== Caves and Cliffs ==

Caves and Cliffs opens with a museum of various cave-related objects, including an exhibit on the world height. Going up two sets of stairs on either end of the entrance, the player can find a second floor with portraits of a cave base, a block of diamond, an axolotl in a lush cave, and a glow squid, as well as a cardboard cutout of Steve getting knocked off a mountain by a goat. Heading forward, many more non-interactive displays are visible, including Steve fighting several monsters in a cave, Steve getting electrocuted with a lightning rod on top of a burnt village house, and several 3D goat horns. In front of the latter display is an exhibit built into the entrance to the Cave Parkour minigame, and beyond that are more exhibits, including one with an interactable Ari NPC, and two portraits of a goat with a crown and a snowy cave.
Passing by a statue of a goat, the player finds four more exhibits, one built into a display of a lush cave biome. Heading forward they cross a wooden bridge into a divided area. To the left, the player passes two more exhibits and enter the area for the Library Labyrinth minigame. Surrounding it are two more pathways, circling around through a higher library. On the left side is a portrait of a miner villager exclusive to this map, and on the right another portrait of a librarian wearing red. Beyond them are bookshelves, candles, and piles of books on the floor, with Noor looking at a bookshelf. Talking to Noor, they say "Hey, over here! Ever wonder if these bookshelves hold more than just books? There could be something hidden by the dusty covers..." This serves as a hint to a lever, on the opposite path of the library, which opens a secret door holding a sticker. In the middle end of the library, the player can also look over the entrance of the minigame, or watch active gameplay through a window.
Leaving the library and going to the right of the bridge, players see a replica of a stronghold, with silverfish circling a lamppost and an exhibit of Alex in a portal room. Continuing forward, the player finds a display of spiders next to an exhibit on silverfish, with a silverfish emerging from an infested chiseled stone bricks, then entering and exiting through two mouseholes out of the exhibit. To the right of that is another bridge, where the player finds Zuri, who proclaims "Wow, these paintings look so lifelike... Almost as if you could step right into it!" This serves as a hint to the sticker hidden inside the portrait.
Continuing from there, the player passes a portrait of a real life amethyst geode, and a cave spider exhibit next to an exit. Beyond that you'll enter an area marked "Geodes and Fossils!," including a large amethyst geode and many displays on fossils. Circling around the geode, the player can find the entrance to the Minecart Mayhem minigame, Makena looking out into an observatory of an ancient city, and an elevator that leads into the deep dark, housed within a redstone mine. Stepping onto the elevator causes it to descend, but if the player needs to lower it from the bottom or raise it from the top, a lever on a lectern made of logs are available.
Inside the deep dark area is an exit, the entrance to the Dig Down minigame, a window, and a hallway covered in sculk, guarded by police tape and hazmat villagers mopping up veins. The player enters another museum, but this one full of sculk and moody lighting, giving the impression of an infestation or tragedy. Of note is a statue of Steve cowering before a Warden, one of the pillars from the ancient city, and several ordinary exhibits.


=== Stickers ===
Eleven stickers can be found here.


=== Exhibits ===


=== Cave Parkour ===

The player begins at the entrance of a cave in a mountain, with icicles reminiscent of pointed dripstone. Inside the player rushes onto blue ice platforms with several checkpoints, with a goat and enderman fighting above on a platform slightly out of view. From there, the players enter a room filled with powder snow, followed by more blue ice blobs and a lush cave. A cyan axolotl greets the player as they jump between bigger big dripleaves, while blue and gold axolotls circle two of the dripleaves. 
From there the player stumbles upon Kai, seemingly exhausted, in a gold mine composed of deepslate, that leads into a dripstone cave filled with bats. As the player continues on through the dripstone cave, they quickly see more lava, before promptly crossing underneath one of the bridges in the hub. Jumping across increasingly far apart towers of deepslate, the parkour ends with an area marked with a checkerboard pattern. Once the player reaches the end, it'll be revealed to be a window visible inside the Deep Dark area, the whole parkour being set in the areas visible by the observatory.
Upon finishing the parkour for the first time, the player receives the goat sticker.
During the minigame, the song "otherside" plays in the background.


=== Library Labyrinth ===

Taking an overhead view of a library labyrinth, Library Labyrinth is a maze game reminiscent of Pac-Man. The player is tasked with collecting eyes of ender, which grant five points, and must avoid zombies, who take twenty points upon attacking. As the players collect more eyes, more will generate in nearby locations, until two minutes have passed. After the minigame is completed for the first time, the player unlocks the eye of ender sticker.
During the minigame, the song "chirp" plays in the background.


=== Minecart Mayhem ===

Set inside a mineshaft suspended above lava, the player must jump between three rails and dodge minecarts. The goal is to avoid getting hit for as long as possible, with minecarts gradually appearing quicker and more numerous. Most are minecarts with TNT, but occasionally they are ridden by creepers. If hit, the player is thrown backward, most likely leading them into lava, ending the minigame. Completing the minigame rewards the TNT sticker.


=== Dig Down ===

Dig Down tasks the player with mining through various blocks, using an iron pickaxe, iron shovel, iron axe, and iron sword. Each run of the minigame is randomized, with occasional diversions from just stone, gravel, and red sand. One common structure is an end portal, and another is a stronghold library with cobwebs. If the player dies, they respawn at the top of the map, but if they don't make it under the two minute time limit, the minigame will end. 
The minigame is won if the player reaches the  bottom, inside of a mine filled with a treasure trove of gold, diamonds, emeralds, lapis lazuli, chests, furnaces, and coal. If the player engages with this minigame, they receive the diamond pickaxe sticker.


== Alpha ==

Alpha features various references to Java Edition Classic, including two floors, eight exhibits, and several statues. The exhibit has "Minecraft" playing in the background. In the entrance, there are flowering azaleas in decorated pots and green balloons. On the second floor, the player can find a cutout labeled 15 Year Celebration, featuring several human mobs and a creeper, as well as two separate tree cutouts and a grass block. In the back are several statues, depicting a sheep, pig, skeleton, and zombie, as well as replicas of early oak trees, roses, and dandelions.
In the back end of the area is a metallic, green room where several of the characters are playing different versions of Minecraft. Alex is ecstatically playing an early version, Zuri is erratically slamming a keyboard while in a coral reef, Kai is approaching a cave, Makena is playing Cave game tech test, and Efe and Ari are slouching and watching cat videos. In the back are servers made of command blocks, and in the center is Steve, inviting the player to a computer playing Java Edition Classic. Walking up to him initiates the minigame.


=== Stickers ===
Four stickers can be found here.


=== Exhibits ===


=== Alpha Minecraft ===

Set inside a recreation of Java Edition Alpha, Alpha Minecraft is a unique minigame game where the player has to switch from Alpha to modern Minecraft and vice versa to solve puzzles to get to the end. Spawning in Alpha, the player is immediately greeted by lonely views and ominous fog, but as soon as they switch versions they find themselves in a village, where a villager is doing the Party Villager dance. Advancing forward, the player finds a wooden pressure plate, which sets off TNT, allowing them to progress.
The player finds another villager from there, housed on an arch above lava and also doing the Party Villager's dance. The path is soon blocked by lava, forcing the player to switch to alpha, then revert to the present to cross a pit by walking over a fallen tree. The player is then blocked from entering a cave with a blockade made of pointed dripstone, after entering inside the player must go back and forth several times to cross a large crevice in the cave, the trick being to stand on cobblestone spots. Soon the cave transitions into a lush cave, where the player has to climb up cave vines to ironically reach a deepslate cave at a higher location, once again having a skippable pit filled with lava. This time, after appearing on a cobblestone platform above the lava, the player must jump on slime blocks to reach a mineshaft.
Now on safe land, the player can again switch to alpha to cross a blockade of cobwebs, though this time it's technically optional. On the opposite side of the tunnel, the mineshaft has been overrun with pillagers. To avoid getting shot by them, the player must quickly switch to alpha and cross another cobblestone road, before reaching another clump of cobwebs. However, now the alpha switch is required to pass due to a slight elevation. From there the player must drop from a large height, requiring them to switch to modern Minecraft; there are hay bales present at the bottom, whereas in alpha the fall damage is great enough to kill the player.
Continuing onward, the player enters a cherry grove, where a sniffer is blocking the exit to a fence. Switching to alpha, the sniffer is replaced by a chicken running in a circle, and the fence with a cobblestone fortitude. Moving past the chicken awards the player with the chicken egg sticker. The final task is to cross a collection of lily pads, ultimately meeting up with Steve and Alex on an island house. Steve says "welcome to the party," while Alex proclaims "woo! You made it." As they say these, the player fades away, returning to the Gaming Room and ending the minigame.
During the minigame, the song "Sweden" plays in the background.


== Buzzy Bees ==

Buzzy Bees features a large greenhouse with bees and villagers, with the first area featuring an assortment of exotic plants, including twisting vines, chorus flowers, and nether warts. Heading straight leads inside into a larger greenhouse, with plants from many biomes, even the Nether. In the center is a large beehive, labeled "Game." Jumping down leads into the hive, a massive bee nest, overfilled with honey and honeycomb blocks. Upon entering, the player drops into one of two rooms flooded with honey. Beyond four displays of bee-related blocks lies the entrance to the Buzzy Bees minigame.
Next to the entrance are two paths, the left path leading into a farm with carrots, potatoes, beetroots, and melons underneath several cherry trees and spore blossoms. Heading west, the road is broken up by a mangrove tree with cave vines, with regular and enlarged lily pads the player can platform on. Around and underneath the tree is a moat, with a hidden room made of stone bricks directly beneath, containing a sticker. A similar section marks the end of the path, consisting only of cobblestone and lily pads. 
The right path is similar to the left, but with a wheat crop in place of the melons, an exhibit explaining pollination, a growing pitcher plant, and the entrance to a hedge maze, marked by a recreation of a villager's head. Inside the maze, you can find many villagers creating elegant hedges of villagers, beehives, a hidden area infested with mycelium and mushrooms where a sticker can be found, and ultimately a massive cherry tree, which leads into the second Hive entrance. Next to the maze is a platforming section, similar to the left, but with a moderately large azalea underneath another, subtler cherry tree. 


=== Stickers ===
Six stickers can be found here.


=== Exhibits ===


=== Buzzy Bees (minigame) ===

In Buzzy Bees, the player is transformed into a bee, and is tasked with collecting nectar from various flowers. How much honey a player has is counted on a bar, and if that bar is filled they can return to the starting area, the Hive, to deposit nectar in exchange for 100 points. Throughout the arena, many obstacles take nectar from the player. Near the entrance are rain clouds, which travel in a circle and hurt the player if they're caught in the rain. At the end of the map is a windmill, run by vindicators and pillagers farming wheat, with banners at the front telling bees not to enter. Other areas include a campsite with hollowed logs, and several beehives.
After three minutes, the player completes the minigame, and are rewarded with the Bee sticker.


== Dimensions ==

Dimensions features a central room with a statue displaying Steve and Alex fighting a Wither and Ender Dragon, labeled "epic battle" in standard galactic alphabet. There are Nether and End themed portals that lead to areas themed around the respective dimensions, each containing a minigame.


==== Nether Area ====
Inside the Nether area, the player is greeted by two iron golem security guards, protecting a Nether Star held inside a cage made of obsidian observers and protected by lasers. If the player walks inside, an alarm sounds. Opposite this are two exhibits of Nether related items, and next to those are several potted Nether fungi and stairs leading to a second floor. Entering from the left door, there is a portrait of wither skeletons, a "Strider Lavaquarium!", a portrait of the Wither, a cardboard cutout of a Nether Fortress, a portrait of a piglin hoarding gold, the "Alchemy Den!", and a portrait of blazes. Inside the Lavaquarium, the player finds many striders playing with zombified piglins. In the Alchemy Den, there are several brewing stands on display, chiseled blocks in the shape of the Wither, and the potion brewing exhibit.
Heading straight on the first floor, the player finds the Dimension Hopping exhibit, and beyond that is a fortress with sections for every biome and a blaze floating above a spawner in the center. In the basalt delta biome, many unique ash blocks appear, with magma cubes jumping around and twisting. In the soul sand valley biome, many soul fires emit soul particles, while a skeleton stands in a fossil. Many other, inanimate skeletons and bones lay about, as well as ruins of a structure made of nether quartz. In the warped forest biome, an enderman dances with a cake with a purple candle. In the crimson forest biome, a hoglin eats crimson fungi. As the player approaches the minigame, they see a statue of a wither skeleton, a display of wither skulls and bones, and two separate groups of piglins and wither skeletons fighting.


==== End Area ====
Inside the End area, it opens  similarly, with two iron golems guarding the Ender Dragon egg protected by lasers. However, in this case an illager burglar is being lowered by rope above the display, which is now made of basalt instead of obsidian. Instead of fungi plants, chorus plants are potted throughout. On the second floor, entering from the right, the player finds a portrait of a shulker, a portrait of endermen holding a grass block, a cardboard cutout of Steve and Alex wearing elytra with diamond armor, a portrait of Steve wearing elytra, the Dragon Breath exhibit, and a portrait of the Ender Dragon. At the end of the End section, the player can find two more exhibits, displays containing shulker boxes, chorus plants, and the inside of an end city, and the Ring Rush minigame.


=== Stickers ===
Six stickers can be found here.


=== Exhibits ===


=== Strider Stroller ===

Strider Stroller is a minigame accessed in the Nether section. It is a 2D platformer minigame where the player must ride and jump from striders to progress through six areas: nether wastes, bastion remnant, crimson forest, warped forest, soul sand valley, and nether fortress. Golden nuggets are placed throughout the minigame and are collected when the player walks into them. Each collected golden nugget grants five points. 
Striders in the minigame can be ridden automatically, and can be controlled manually as opposed to lured with a warped fungus on a stick, although the item is still visible in the player's offhand. While riding a strider, the player is able to jump, as well as leap off the strider and bounce off of them. If a player is killed during the minigame, they respawn in a safe location, but lose 30 points. In turn, they respawn riding a second strider, their original one remaining wherever they died.
Beginning in a crimson forest, the player walks away from a Nether portal and immediately get a strider to pass over a lava pool, before having to bounce to reach a higher area with a second strider. They then encounter a similar setup, now with drops of lava periodically appearing, and no immediate strider afterward, leaving the player to climb several weeping vines alone. There the player is first incentivized to use their crossbow, which fires a single arrow automatically, allowing them to pass a zombified piglin enemy. After climbing more vines, the player finds a bridge leading into the bastion remnant area. Killing a few piglins to pass, the player ultimately finds a new strider, as well as an enchanted book.
Descending further and further down the bastion, the player must cross increasingly more lava pools, before entering the basalt delta, where they are greeted by more dripping lava. Continuing forward, players can find a slightly obscured area that can be accessed by bouncing off a strider, where they find the piercing enchantment. From there, the player can proceed to the nether wastes without issue, encountering several more zombified piglins, before quickly transitioning into the warped forest. 
After several simple platform sequences and encounters with zombified piglins, the player can enter the soul sand valley, immediately being slowed by soul sand. Continuing forward, the player drops down to a nether fossil and another lava pool; if they turn around into the pool they find the soul speed upgrade. Ultimately, they arrive at the Nether Fortress, and quickly find a second Nether portal, ending the minigame. Completing Strider Stroller grants the strider sticker.
During the minigame, the song "Pigstep" plays in the background.


==== Items ====


=== Ring Rush ===

Set in the End, Ring Rush is an elytra minigame where players are given an elytra and a firework rocket. The player is also given Jump Boost II for the duration of the minigame. Gliding through recreations of the End's central island and a miniaturized end city, the player must pass through several rings, for a total of 3 laps. Regardless of if the minigame is being played or not, NPCs also fly through the course. An ender dragon also can be seen flying around.
The player begins the minigame on a recreation of an end ship. First, the player must fly straight through 3 rings, to a part of an end city, which is their first checkpoint. They then go through a downward spiral of rings to the right, circling the main end island. The player must then use a rocket to ascend through the rings up to another part of the end city, which is their second checkpoint. Lastly, the player uses another rocket to go through the last 4 rings, returning to the end ship to start their next lap, which also acts as a checkpoint. After the 3 laps have been completed, the player's final time is given via a chat message upon reaching the end ship.
If the player skips more than 2 rings in a row, strays too far from the path of rings, or lands in specific areas, they are teleported to their last checkpoint.
Completing the minigame unlocks the elytra sticker.
During the minigame, the song "far" plays in the background. The starting end ship contains regular end ship loot, and a brewing stand with 2 Instant Health II potions inside.


== Exploration ==

Set inside an expansive museum, the player is immediately given doors into two biomes, a minigame, and a statue of Steve, labeled Steve. Behind Steve are display cases of a compass and partly filled map, and behind those is the first Wandering Trader minigame. In front of the statue are several displays built into the wall of the entrance, showing decorated pots in three sizes: regular, small, and large. The pots on the right are perfectly intact, whereas on the left two pots are shattered, and one shelf has two small pots.
Moving to the left, the player can enter a desert section, with a villager janitor is mopping sand, a camel is sitting down, and many shattered pots lead the way into a replica desert pyramid. Walking down into the temple, the player finds an extensive museum of pottery, with sherd patterns decorating the wall and many exotic pots on display, Efe marveling at special golden pots. At the end of the room are two more rooms, one containing the Pot Shuffle minigame, and another leading into a more conventional museum area, with a switch that changes the time of day inside two exhibits. 
From there, the theme of the museum changes to that of a savanna, with more wandering trader minigames set in a savanna and a badland, and Noor appreciating a statue of rideable mobs. Proceeding from there, the player passes by four portraits: one of the wandering trader, another of his llamas, and then two of humanoid mooshrooms, red and brown. 
After two exhibits involving mushrooms, the player finds the Mooshroom Madness minigame. Unique to this minigame, it's started by talking to an NPC, but can be freely explored by walking through its door, allowing the player to reach another area of the museum. Passing portraits of the Mooshroom Madness NPC, real mushrooms, a snow golem, and polar bear, the player enters an arctic area. Unique to this area is a frozen floor, which is slippery like actual ice blocks. Near a polar bear exhibit, Makena is gazing at frozen windows reminiscent of the freezing filter, and in the center Sunny is marveling at a replica igloo, which doubles as the snow golem exhibit. Inside the igloo, the player can climb down into the basement, and claim the zombie villager sticker.
Elsewhere in the area is another two Find the Wandering Trader minigames, set inside of an ice spikes biome. Left of that is an unfrozen flight of stairs, which lead to an exit, a sniffer statue, and the entrance to the Sniff and Seek minigame. Similar to Mooshroom Madness, the minigame has two different entrances, which this time leads to displays of sniffer eggs on hay bales, and a house made out of cherry wood with this map's baby creeper inside. Beyond that is a large room containing many exhibits and displays of live mobs, including warm frogs, slimes, and two separate sets of abnormally large rabbits. Also inside the room are two more Find the Wandering Trader minigames, and the Excavation minigame.
Leaving the moist area, the player finds several more paintings, depicting humanoid ocelot and parrot marked with their names in standard galactic alphabet, and live exhibits featuring those  mobs. If the player interacts with the exhibits, they receive the parrot sticker. Walking forward leads the player to the entrance of the Temple Dash minigame, based behind a large arrangement of armor trims. If the player hasn't played the minigame, the trim in the center appears transparent, as the artifact hasn't been collected yet. Opposite the NPC leads the player out of the jungle pyramid, revealing the jungle area from the entrance of the area, accessed from reverse. Outside, Zuri can be seen by the window.
Entering the jungle through its front door, Steve welcomes the player inside, as they march up cobblestone stairs. The jungle corner is designed around parkour, with many hidden stickers across parkour challenges. Right beside the jungle pyramid is a wooden bridge, leading to a sign pointing to a ladder across from a jungle root. Climbing up, the player follows more signs, leading them over a fallen tree above a waterfall, which goes inside the top of the pyramid and over a bridge above the entrance. After exiting the pyramid and climbing another ladder, the player enters a collection of treetop platforms. An arrow points toward a ladder, which descends the player onto a bridge suspended by chains, which ultimately leads to the jungle temple sticker. If the player decides to, they can also use nearby vines to climb on top of the trees, getting a great view of the light rays present in the map.


=== Stickers ===
Thirteen stickers can be found here.


=== Exhibits ===


=== Find the Wandering Trader and his Llamas ===

Played through a telescope block, Find the Wandering Trader and His Llamas is a recurring minigame throughout Exploration. In the first, set inside of a bamboo jungle, four pandas are immediately visible. Two are babies, one is brown, and one is eating bamboo. A white llama is hiding behind the hungry panda, a brown llama is on a hill behind the brown panda, and the wandering trader is balancing himself on a bamboo block. In order to zoom, the player has to punch.
The second minigame is set within a savanna, where a villager is tilling coarse dirt in what appears to be an under construction zoo, with various crates, one seemingly with an armadillo inside, and a villager painting the wall to mimic a sky. The white llama is standing behind tall grass, the brown llama hiding behind an acacia, and the wandering trader trapped inside of a wooden cage. The trader does not appear to mind, happily dancing.
The third minigame is set in a badland biome, right behind Noor. The biome is finished but empty, with many levels of red sand, more detailed cacti, and a mineshaft rigged with TNT. The brown llama is immediately visible, casually standing behind a minecart filled with raw gold and near TNT. The white llama is not too far visually but  distant physically, appearing on the top of a wooded badland plateau. The trader is even closer, stuck inside of red sand behind a cactus.
The fourth minigame is set inside of an ice spikes biome, stationed next to Makena. In the center of the biome is a small island made of packed ice and snow, with a polar bear and its cub on top. Using the telescope, the player can find the wandering trader and trader llamas on the surrounding land. The white llama is cowering behind a large ice spike in the distance, while the brown llama is peeking in and out of a collection of snow layers. The wandering trader is much more difficult to find, being frozen inside of an ice spike, visible at the  top.
The fifth minigame is located in the same area as the ice spike minigame, right behind Sunny. This one is set inside of a snowy plains biome, with a large river, white trees, and an igloo on a cliff with a ladder installation. Using the telescope, the white llama is bobbing its head behind several rocks, the brown llama surrounded by icy ferns, and the wandering trader once again frozen, this time in the river.
The sixth minigame is set inside both a mangrove swamp and swamp, with temperate and warm frogs visible, a slime jumping up and down endlessly, as well as a swamp hut with a witch, using a cauldron, and black cat. With the telescope, the white llama can be found inside of a mangrove, brown llama mostly sunken and sticking its head by a lily pad, and the wandering trader stuck inside of a large slime, jumping up and down endlessly.
Much like the previous sets, the seventh minigame is in the same room as the swamp hunt. Set inside of an old growth taiga (referred to as a "giant taiga") during night time, several foxes are still asleep, whereas a wolf consumes a bone. In subtle locations, lanterns can be seen hanging from branches, which the wandering trader is seen above using the telescope. The white llama can be found near a fox resting on a forest rock, while the brown llama is on top of an mega spruce. 


=== Pot Shuffle ===

Unlike other minigames, Pot Shuffle can be walked in and out of, the NPC only giving instructions. The minigame itself is a simple game, where an emerald is placed inside one of three decorated pots, which are then shuffled. If the player clicks the correct pot with an emerald inside, they advance to the next round, which gradually becomes harder. Starting in round 4, two additional pots appear.
Upon completing the minigame, the player is rewarded with the emerald sticker.


=== Mooshroom Madness ===
Mooshrom madness is a minigame where the player completes a parkour by bounces from red mushrooms to brown mushrooms and uses a lightning rod to turn mooshrooms to the color of the mushrooms theyre standing on.


=== Sniff and Seek ===

During the game, the song Relic plays in the background.


=== Excavation ===


=== Temple Dash ===
The main goal in temple dash is to defeat zombies and skeletons, and avoid dispensers that shoot out arrows and find a wild smithing template, upon beating the minigame, the player will be award with a golden apple sticker.


== Videos ==


== Trivia ==

What appear to be the bees from the Buzzy Bees: Official Trailer make a cameo appearance inside of the Buzzy Bees area.
The beginning of the Alpha Minecraft minigame is set in a recreation of the original image featuring Herobrine.
The chests that normally appear during Christmas can be seen in the Exploration area's igloo.
The map was decided to not port over to Java Edition by Oreville Studios due to being "too limiting for [their] vision of the map" despite given the option to by Mojang.


== Gallery ==


=== Promotional images ===


=== Promotional videos ===


=== Renders ===


==== Blocks ====


==== Entities ====


=== Screenshots ===


=== Hub ===


=== The Aquarium ===


=== Caves & Cliffs ===


=== Alpha ===


=== Buzzy Bees ===


=== Dimensions ===


=== Exploration ===


== Quotes ==


=== External ===


=== Internal ===


== References ==


== See also ==
10 Years of Minecraft, a similar map released five years prior
15 Year Party Supplies, an add-on released the day after and sharing many assets
Angry Birds, another map developed by Oreville Studios
The Incredibles, another map developed by Oreville Studios
Realms Celebration


== Navigation ==