A sneak peek at 0.15 - The Friendly Update is a trailer promoting the release of the Friendly Update.


== Summary ==
Inside a room, Steve takes a cookie from a table to eat it. Realizing they are out of cookies, Alex pulls the emergency lever, activating a piston mechanism that pulls down a wall of sand behind them. Steve then rides a horse outside while Alex rides a minecart, leading them to several redstone structures. 
First, the structure resembles a water tap that activated when Alex passed by, pouring water into a sink then into a canal. Then they rode between two minecarts. The one at the left activated a moving mechanism that continuously spawned chickens through a dispenser. The left one goes along a path leading it inside a building where it activates a tower of three clusters of redstone lamps. Alex's minecart then activates a series of redstone in front of the building, triggering a chain of minecarts going back and forth along the building in a wavy style. Alex then disappears inside the neighboring building, reappearing on a railtrack going across the first building and activating another series of minecarts. This time, the carts activate redstone lamp every time they reach the top.
Alex then falls into a railtrack on a ledge before falling into a pipe where they disappear in a redstone lamp tunnel, then into a tower. The tower houses a redstone mechanism that pulses a flow of water falling downward behind a birch sapling. When the sapling grew into a tree, it activates a mechanism that caused a minecart to go off along another railtrack leading outside. There, it activates two other minecarts that run between two sugar cane farms, growing the canes. Then, the main minecart activates a series of dispensers that spawned husks with the Speed effect. The husks run toward a villager on a minecart, but they activate a tripwire, causing the villager's minecart to go off. The minecart then disappears into a tower where it activates a redstone lamp tower, then a redstone lamp screen displaying "WIN 10".
After the display, Alex reappears, activating another screen display, this time reading "MCPE". They disappear again inside a tunnel, while two towers of redstone lamps start flickering, with water flowing in between. As the water reached the surface, a dropper activates, slowly dropping diamonds onto a light weighted pressure plate that activates a towering mechanism. It activates another mechanism consisting of pistons and blocks of redstone that activate a horizontal display screen reading "The Friendly Update". The display fades into arrows as Alex comes out, triggering a series of pistons pushing chests downward, as well as redstone lamps. Finally, they ride along dispensers dropping TNT on a body of water before activating one more dispenser, this time containing a cookie. The cookie drops on what resembles a picnic mat, where Alex and Steve stop and the former takes the cookie.


=== Characters ===


== Video ==


== Navigation ==