A Minecraft Movie is a 2025 American adventure comedy film based on the video game Minecraft. It is directed by Jared Hess and written by Chris Bowman, Hubbel Palmer, Neil Widener, Gavin James, and Chris Galletta, from a story by Allison Schroeder, Bowman, and Palmer.
Plans for the film originated in February 2014 when Markus Persson announced that the film was in development at Warner Bros. Pictures. However, the film ultimately did not leave the pre-production phase until April 2022, when it was reported that Jared Hess was set to direct the film and Jason Momoa was attached to star. Further casting was announced between May 2023 and January 2024, with principal photography beginning that month and wrapping in April 2024.
A Minecraft Movie had its premiere held at the Empire Leicester Square in London, England, on March 30, 2025, and was theatrically released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on April 4, 2025.
The film has received mixed to negative reviews from critics, but it has been a box-office success, grossing $960 million worldwide against a budget of $150 million, making it the second-highest grossing film based on a video game, the second-highest grossing domestic film of 2025, and the fifth-highest grossing film worldwide of 2025, subsequently making it Jared Hess' highest-grossing film to date.
A sequel, titled A Minecraft Sequel, is in development and is slated to be released on July 23, 2027.


== Synopsis ==


== Plot ==

Steve had a passion to explore the mine since he was young, but he wasn't allowed to do so with his young age. He settled for an office job years later, but feeling discontent, he remembered the mines and returned to them, finally able to explore. While mining, he came across the Earth Crystal and the Orb of Dominance; combining the two formed the Earth Cube, which activated an Earth Portal, in which he discovers the Overworld. There, he tames and befriends a wolf named Dennis and becomes an expert builder. One day, Steve discovers an obsidian gateway and, upon reactivating it, enters the Nether. He encounters Malgosha, the leader of the piglins, who despises creativity and has wished to demolish the Overworld for gold since being mocked at a talent show she joined in her childhood. Malgosha imprisons Steve and Dennis, who escape with the Orb of Dominance. Steve instructs Dennis to go to Earth and hide the orb under his bed at home. Steve is imprisoned once again as Dennis escapes into Earth.
Years later, Garrett Garrison, nicknamed "The Garbage Man" after becoming the video game champion of 1989, runs a store known as Game Over World in Chuglass, Idaho, but he receives an eviction notice. He heads to a storage unit that is said to hold an Atari Cosmos, hoping to sell it at his shop. Garrett wins the unit, but the Atari Cosmos is nowhere to be found. He trashes the unit before leaving, upset at his misfortune, but his car soon breaks down. Meanwhile, Henry and Natalie move into Chuglass following the death of their mother. They meet their estate agent, Dawn, who introduces them to their home. The next morning, Henry visits Game Over World before school and meets Garrett, who offers to mentor him. Upon arriving at Chuglass High School, he is greeted by Vice Principal Marlene and begins art class. He builds a jetpack, which wows the students, but after being sabotaged by Trevor and his friend, the jetpack goes haywire and crashes into the local potato chip factory. Henry is nearly expelled, but Garrett pretends to be his uncle and picks him up. Back at Game Over World, Henry notices the Orb of Dominance and combines it with the Earth Crystal, dragging him to the mineshaft. Dawn and Natalie follow him and Garrett into the mineshaft, and they are all dragged through the portal into the Overworld. As they take in their surroundings, a nitwit secretly goes through the portal and enters Earth.
Malgosha soon discovers that the Orb has returned, and frees Steve on the condition that he retrieves the Orb for her. He obliges, but he attempts a sneak attack. Malgosha threatens to kill Dennis if Steve does not oblige, forcing him to reluctantly accept. Dennis then heads into the mineshaft, goes through the portal, and returns to the Overworld. Meanwhile, it becomes nighttime in the Overworld, and the gang is attacked by numerous hostile mobs. Garrett escapes through a tunnel underground, while Henry builds a house to protect him, Natalie, and Dawn. Garrett emerges beneath the surface and makes it to the house, but the cube is destroyed by a skeleton's arrow. The group are cornered by zombies but they are soon rescued by Steve as it becomes daytime. He introduces himself and agrees to help the misfits return home, planning to do so by stealing another crystal from the Woodland Mansion. Meanwhile, the nitwit gets hit by Marlene's car, and Marlene offers to take the nitwit out for dinner.
Upon arriving at Midport Village, Steve introduces the group to the villagers, and leads them to Steve's Lava Chicken! and his stash. In the Nether, Malgosha orders General Chungus to lead an army into the village and kill the humans. In the Overworld, Steve introduces Henry and Garrett to the crafting table, crafting an iron sword. Garrett then crafts two buckets connected to a chain, and Henry crafts a tot launcher using items from Earth. As Dawn and Natalie meet the cartographer, the village is attacked by General Chungus and his army. The humans get the upper hand and eventually escape, splitting up in the process. Steve, Henry, and Garrett escape with elytra and are chased through the air by piglins and ghasts. Dawn and Natalie attempt to craft a boat to follow the cartographer, but they are unable to do so. Meanwhile, on Earth, Marlene goes on a date with the nitwit and expresses feelings towards him, which are reciprocated.
Steve, Garrett, and Henry then head for the Redstone Mountains, with the woodland mansion just beyond them. Malgosha fires General Chungus, who is killed by the Great Hog. Dawn and Natalie encounter Dennis and tame him, and Dawn asks Dennis to take them to Steve. In the Redstone Mines, Steve, Garrett, and Henry find Steve's stash of diamonds, as Garrett secretly requested to Steve earlier that he may bring home diamonds to pay his debts. They are interrupted by the Great Hog and escape through a minecart track, killing the Great Hog in Steve's creeper farm. Henry and Garrett then get into a heated argument, while on Earth, Marlene and the nitwit are still having a dinner date.
Henry, Garrett, and Steve soon arrive at the woodland mansion. As previously planned, Henry retrieves the Earth Crystal to combine it with the orb, while Garrett and Steve distract the illagers with a Birthday Rap song. Henry eventually finds the crystal, but he is attacked by an enderman, all while Steve and Garrett are subjected to a fight with a chicken jockey. After Henry defeats the enderman and the other two win the fight, the three escape. Outside, they are cornered by Malgosha and her army, who steals the orb and reveals she made a New Hog. Henry and Steve escape on a lone ghast while Garrett sacrifices himself to hold off the piglins, seemingly being caught in a TNT explosion. After Henry and Steve crash-land on grass, they are taken to the Mushroom Safe House built by Dawn. Steve is happily reunited with Dennis while Henry and Natalie apologize and reconcile. Malgosha gives the orb to two piglins, who place the orb atop a giant Nether portal, blocking out the sun and spawning Nether wart everywhere, thus beginning the Great Darkening.
Steve, Henry, Natalie, and Dawn work together to stop the piglins, building iron golems to take down the army, while Steve faces Malgosha with diamond armor. Henry heads up to the orb using an ender pearl with his tot launcher, and Dawn sends Dennis and a pack of wolves after the piglins. Henry attempts to retrieve the orb, but he is attacked by the New Hog. Garrett saves Henry using the ghast he hijacked and fires fireballs at the Nether portal, destroying it, and zombifying the piglins in the process. Retrieving the orb, the misfits are able to head back home. Steve allows Dennis to go live with Dawn, and after Natalie suggests that Steve head into the real world, he decides to join them. On Earth, Steve assists Garrett in creating a new arcade game, Block City Battle Buddies, and forms a band with him. Dawn leaves her real-estate job to start a petting zoo, and Natalie now leads a self-defense class. Henry arrives in school on his jet pack and is admired by fellow students.
In a mid-credits scene, Marlene and the nitwit get engaged, having learnt each other's languages.
In a post-credits scene, Steve heads back to his home to retrieve his personal belongings from the attic. He is greeted by the current owner, a woman named Alex.


== Cast ==
Jason Momoa as Garrett "The Garbage Man" Garrison, a "video game world champion" from 1989 that can't seem to move on from his previous fame.
Moana Williams portrays a young Garrett Garrison.
Jack Black as Steve, the first human to discover the Overworld, who has yearned for the mines since his childhood.
Bram-Scott Breheny portrays a young Steve.
Sebastian Eugene Hansen as Henry, the younger brother of Natalie. He is shown as a modder in A Minecraft Movie and the one holding the Earth Cube when he first entered the game's world.
Emma Myers as Natalie, Henry's older sister whom is struggling to live independently.
Danielle Brooks as Dawn Runcie, the real estate agent who helps Natalie and Henry settle in Chuglass.
Jennifer Coolidge as Marlene, the vice-principal of Chuglass High School.
Rachel House as Malgosha, the queen of the piglins.
Allan Henry physically portrays Malgosha.
Jared Hess as General Chungus, an officer in Malgosha's army.
Daniel Rosenfeld (archived audio) and Matt Berry as Nitwit, a villager who enters the real world and becomes Marlene's love interest.
Jemaine Clement as Daryl, an auctioneer and friend to Garrett. Clement also provides the voice for Bruce.
Kate McKinnon as the voice of Alex.
Alice May Connolly physically portrays Alex in the post-credits scene.
Mark Wright as an HR Person at Chuggy Potato Chips
Yvette Parsons as a mail Delivery Person
Hiram Garcia as Clemente Gunchie, Marlene's ex-husband that teaches art and gym at Chuglass High School.
Batanai Mashingaidze as Matty The Waitress, an employee at the resturant that Marlene and the nitwit go to.
Amanda Billing portrays Henry's Mother, who is not named.
Tommy Broadmore as Trevor, one of Henry's bullies.
Frankie Creagh-Leslie as an unnamed friend of Trevor.
Alison Quigan and John Smythe as Chuggy executives at Chuglass Potato Chips
Alex Tunui as the Secretary of Chuglass High School
Craig McKinney as the Miner.
Joel Rindelaub as the Arcade Judge
Antony DeGreat and Victor Kazaroho as gamers
Rowan Bacal as Greta
Brennen Standing as Leo
Dylan Chitekwe as Miles
Jens Bergensten, the chief creative officer at Mojang Studios, makes a cameo appearance as a waiter at the restaurant that Marlene and the nitwit go to. Torfi Frans Olafsson, the creative director at Mojang Studios, makes a cameo appearance as a student in Natalie's self-defense class.
YouTubers DanTDM, Mumbo Jumbo, LDShadowLady and Aphmau also make cameos in the film as attendants of Daryl's auction. Valkyrae was also scheduled to make a cameo, however her cameo was cut.


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Following a series of offers from Hollywood producers to create a Minecraft-related television series and a crowdfunding campaign for a fan film that was shut down by Markus Persson, Notch announced on February 27, 2014 that Mojang Studios was working with Warner Bros. to make a Minecraft film, saying on Twitter that he wanted to be the one to leak it out. That same day, it was reported that Roy Lee and Jill Messick were added as producers.
On October 8, 2014, Vu Bui stated that the movie was in "its early days of development", saying that it was a "large-budget production" and that it was planned to release within three to four years. Later that same month, it was reported that Shawn Levy would direct the film, but he soon left the project along with Kieran and Michele Mulroney, who were serving as writers, due to creative differences and scheduling conflicts. It was reported that Levy and the Mulroney's vision for the film didn't mesh well with what Mojang was looking for. Levy would later state in an interview that he envisioned a Minecraft film as an adventure movie with a Goonies flair.
On July 21, 2015, Vu Bui announced that Rob McElhenney would serve as the director of the film.
On June 27, 2016, Mojang Studios announced the title and release date for Minecraft: The Movie by showing the front cover of the script and publicly announcing a release date of May 24, 2019.
On October 13, 2016, it was reported that Jason Fuchs would be writing the script alongside McElhenney. Producer Jill Messick committed suicide on February 7, 2018, making Minecraft: The Movie the last movie she worked on.
On August 3, 2018, it was reported that Rob McElhenney and Jason Fuchs were replaced by writing duo Aaron and Adam Nee to rewrite the script. The film was taken off the release schedule as a result of the replacement. McElhenney would later state that he was drawn to the film because of the game's open-world nature and revealing that Warner Bros. had provided him with a preliminary $150 million budget. Studios in Vancouver were booked for filming by that point, but it "slowly died on the vine" when studio head Greg Silverman was replaced by Toby Emmerich, who had a different vision for the film.
On January 3, 2019, it was reported that Jim Berney has been appointed for the film's visual effects. Later that same month, it was reported that Peter Sollett would write and direct the film, with Jon Berg being added as a producer, and Jon Spaihts being added as an executive producer, along with information about the plot revolving around the Ender Dragon destroying the Overworld. This information would be confirmed the following April in a blog post made on Minecraft.net, announcing that the film would be released on March 4, 2022. On June 24, 2019, it was reported that Allison Schroeder would be co-writing the latest script with Sollett for the film.
On April 18, 2022, it was reported that Sollett had departed the project, with Jared Hess taking over to direct the film while Chris Bowman and Hubbel Palmer were set to write the latest script. Lydia Winters and Mary Parent were also added as producers, while Cale Boyter was also added as an executive producer. Hess would later state that he would be attempting to avoid "an ugly Sonic situation", referencing the first trailer for the first Sonic the Hedgehog film, and said that he wouldnt want to disappoint anyone regarding his vision for the film.
On April 5, 2023, it was reported that the film is now slated to release on April 4, 2025.
On May 23, 2023, it was reported that Jason Momoa and Torfi Frans Olafsson were added as producers.
On January 14, 2024, Jared Hess would confirm in an interview that Grant Major had been hired to work on production design for the film.


=== Casting ===
In November 2016, it was reported that Steve Carell was in talks to star in the film, but he left the project due to scheduling conflicts.
In April 2022, it was reported that Jason Momoa was in talks to star in the film.
In May 2023, it was reported that Matt Berry was in talks to star in the film.
In November 2023, it was reported that Danielle Brooks and Sebastian Eugene Hansen were in talks to star in the film as the characters Dawn and Henry, respectively. The following month, it was reported that Emma Myers was also in talks to star. Jack Black would later join the cast as Steve in January 2024 alongside Jennifer Coolidge, Kate McKinnon, and Jemaine Clement. Jack Black was originally cast as a talking pig, but his character was changed to Steve late in the film's development.
In September 2024, Valkyrae revealed she had a role in the film, but it was cut from the final version.


=== Filming ===

In June 2023, it was reported that filming was slated to begin in August 2023 in New Zealand, however it was delayed to January 2024 due to the 2023 SAG-AFTRA strike. Filming officially began that month and wrapped on April 12, 2024, with Jason Momoa posting a photo of some of the cast and crew on Instagram to mark the occasion.


=== Post-production ===
Sony Pictures Imageworks, Weta FX, and Digital Domain provided visual effects for the film, alongside Dan Lemmon serving as visual effects supervisor. James Thomas is the film's editor.


== Music ==

In September 2024, it was announced that Mark Mothersbaugh would compose the score for the film. A promotional song, "I Feel Alive", performed by Jack Black, was released on March 19, 2025.
The soundtrack was released on March 28, 2025, featuring the score as composed by Mark Mothersbaugh, in addition to songs performed by Jack Black, Dirty Honey, Dayglow, BENEE, Bret McKenzie, and Jamieson Shaw.
Additionally, the movie featured the following tracks:

"Dragon Fish" by C418
"Pigstep" by Lena Raine
"Comforting Memories" by Kumi Tanioka
"I Remember You" by Skid Row
"Lil Boo Thang" by Paul Russell
"Private Idaho" by The B-52s


== Release ==


=== Theatrical ===
The film was distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures and was theatrically released in the United States on April 4, 2025. It was originally scheduled to be released on May 24, 2019, but it was then taken off the release schedule in August 2018 due to the aforementioned replacement of McElhenney and Fuchs. In April 2019, it was announced that the film would be released on March 4, 2022, but it was again taken off the release schedule in October 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with The Batman taking its place. The movie then moved to its current release date of April 4, 2025, in April 2023. It was released April 24, 2025, globally.


=== Home media ===
On May 7, 2025, it was announced that the film would be released on digital storefronts on May 13, 2025. The digital film contains some behind the scenes videos, including Building the World of Minecraft: Block Party, Creepers, Zombies, and Endermen Oh My!, Pixel Pals, Block Beats, and Marlene + Nitwit.
On May 13, 2025, it was announced that the film would be released physically in DVD, Blu-ray, and 4K Ultra HD formats on June 24, 2025.


=== Marketing ===
On September 4, 2024, a teaser trailer and a poster were released. These are what first revealed the film's title, characters, and look.
On September 28, 2024, at Minecraft Live 2024, a talk about the film with Torfi Frans Ofalsson and Jared Hess was featured, as well as behind-the-scenes footage and a short clip from the film.
On November 18, 2024, a short behind the scenes video was released, along with a caption announcing a new trailer releasing on November 19.
On November 19, 2024, a full trailer and a second teaser poster were released.
On February 27, 2025, the final trailer and theatrical posters were released.


== Videos ==
Trailers

Behind the scenes

Other


== Reception ==


=== Box office ===
On March 21, 2025, A Minecraft Movie was projected to gross $6075 million in the United States and Canada on its opening weekend. Further projections in April estimated the film to gross a total of $140 million worldwide in its opening weekend.
Domestically, the film grossed $10.55 million in Thursday night previews, and grossed $47.45 million on opening day, for a domestic total of $58 million at that point.
In the film's opening weekend, it over-performed expectations and grossed $301 million worldwide, surpassing Nacho Libre as Jared Hess' highest-grossing film and being the #1 film at the domestic box office. In its second weekend, the film's gross increased to $550 million, surpassing Sonic the Hedgehog 3 as the second-highest grossing film based on a video game, behind The Super Mario Bros. Movie. In its third weekend, it dropped from the top spot domestically, but its gross increased to $720 million. By its fourth weekend, the film's gross increased to $816 million, and by its sixth, it increased further to $909 million. In its seventh weekend, the film's gross increased slightly to $928 million.


=== Critical response ===
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 47% of 196 critics' reviews are positive. The website's consensus reads: "Ostensibly a film about celebrating creativity, A Minecraft Movie provides a colorful sandbox for Jack Black and Jason Momoa to amusingly romp around in a story curiously constructed from conventional building blocks." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 45 out of 100, based on 40 critics, indicating "mixed or average" reviews. Audience reactions to the film were more positive in comparison to critics; CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B+" on an A+ to F scale, while 67% of those surveyed by PostTrak said they would definitely recommend the film. Kids under the age of 12 gave the film an average rating of five out of five stars, while parents gave an average of four and a half out of five stars. Per the audience score on Rotten Tomatoes, 84% of over ten-thousand audience reviews were positive, with the website's consensus stating: "Beyond being a fertile meme-factory, A Minecraft Movie proves how much fun two men with beards can bring to the sandbox."
Critics were divided on the film's plot and whether or not A Minecraft Movie was a faithful adaptation of the game, as well as if it made sense to viewers unfamiliar with it. Lovia Gyarkye of The Hollywood Reporter and Jesse Hassenger of IGN both believed that the film's plot was confusing. Gyarkye felt that it struggled to maintain an ethos because it lacked "a clear sense of its own stakes and intended audience", and Hassenger said that the film's plot was "conceptually muddy" and "confusingly and erratically presented" as a combination of multiple plot points. Mark Kennedy of the Associated Press believed that the film would likely make no sense to a viewer unfamiliar with the source material, but he still believed that it was a faithful adaptation. However, he did highlight the films featuring concepts not present within the game itself to enable plot progression. Contrarily, Liz Shannon Miller of Consequence believed that the plot was fully comprehensible to someone unfamiliar with the game. Some reviewers viewed the fan service present within the film positively, particularly highlighting the tribute to Technoblade.
The performances of the cast were praised. Many viewed their performances as helping alleviate or distract any problems present within the film's plot. Black and Momoa, in particular, received a lot of praise. Miller and Jordan Hoffman of Entertainment Weekly both felt that the story was not the main priority of the film and could be ignored in favor of the performance of the actors, the former believing that the film was mainly made with the intent of having fun. However, some viewed that the characters, despite the performances of their actors, were generally underdeveloped. The sub-plot involving Coolidge's character dating a villager, while viewed as generally unnecessary or relatively thin in terms of character development, was subject to considerable praise.
Some reviewers questioned the purpose or value of the film, with some viewing it as nothing more than a product with the intent of promoting Minecraft. Both Kevin Maher of The Times and David Fear of Rolling Stone likened the film to a corporate cash-grab, viewing it as existing with the sole purpose of promoting the Minecraft brand and offering nothing else of value. Maher further viewed the film as "an unapologetic cranium-crusher", while Fear believed that the film was intentionally confusing so that it would stay in the minds of people longer, and therefore encourage them to purchase merchandise. While Clarisse Loughrey of The Independent believed that the idea behind a live-action Minecraft adaptation was fundamentally flawed and destroyed the spirit of the source material, she felt that the film had "genuine intent" and was not like other adaptations that she viewed as existing solely for the sake of profit.


=== Cinema reactions ===

In theatres, fans would cheer whenever any of Black's lines from the trailer were said in the film, such as "I am Steve", "Flint and steel!", and most notably, "Chicken jockey!". In one example of the latter, someone had brought in a live chicken to a screening in Provo, Utah, subsequently being removed from the showing.
Observers would later note that the reactions to the film were becoming a cultural phenomenon, comparing it to screenings of The Rocky Horror Picture Show and The Room.
Warner Bros. would later capitalize on the trend by announcing a "Block Party Edition" of the film, which was shown in theaters from May 2, 2025 until the end of its theatrical run.


=== Accolades ===


== Sequel ==

On March 30, 2025, during the green carpet premiere, Jared Hess expressed interest in the idea of making a sequel, noting the world's use of infinite mods, characters, and biomes, outlining how Minecraft is virtually endless. He later stated that there were many ideas they had for the film that they were unable to use, but he would likely be included as part of a sequel.
On April 2, 2025, Jack Black, the actor for Steve, and Jason Momoa, the actor for Garret Garrison, were asked many questions in a Q&A for the movie. Black was asked if he would be playing Herobrine in a sequel. His response was "Dude, you want to know if theres Hero Brian in the sequel? We dont know. We don't know... I hope so."
On April 4, 2025, Emma Myers and Sebastian Hansen told Yahoo UK how likely they thought a sequel would be. Emma said that she would love to do as many as they want, saying "Oh yeah, please. Minecraft 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6  as many as they'll have me in I would love to do!". Sebastain revealed that it would be  be "great [to] keep it going" but he also is unsure how it could go about because of the way in which the movie tells a story entirely new to the world of the game so that means a potential sequel could go anywhere and do anything, which is an overwhelming concept.
On April 8, 2025, Jared Hess said that there were talks about a sequel in development. On April 11, 2025, it was reported by several outlets that a sequel is in early development. A day later, the CEO of Warner Bros. confirmed that there will be a follow-up film.
At the end of an interview discussing the film, the VFX supervisor Sheldon Stopsack and the animation supervisor Kevin Estey both refer to a hypothetical sequel as "Another Minecraft Movie". is already in early development.
On October 9, 2025, the official A Minecraft Movie Twitter account posted a teaser of two iron pickaxes on a crafting table announcing that a sequel was set to release on July 23, 2027. The title A Minecraft Sequel was revealed at CinemaCon on April 14, 2026.


== Trivia ==
A Minecraft Movie was briefly shelved during its development.
On Twitter/X, Jeb teased that the piglins in the movie survive in the Overworld by using Nether wart in the same way as the piglins from Minecraft Legends.
Jared Hess's reasoning of naming the film A Minecraft Movie as opposed to The Minecraft Movie was that "the game does not have a definitive way to play; there are an overwhelming amount of stories that can be told in Minecraft, and he states that is simply one of those stories".
In the film, a snippet of "Minecraft" by C418 can be heard.
During the Midport Village introduction scene, a pig is seen wearing a crown, which Steve states is a "legend". This is a tribute to late YouTuber Technoblade, who passed away from his battle with sarcoma cancer mid-2022. In a later interview, it was revealed that Sebastian Hansen, who plays Henry in the film, was the one to suggest the reference.
During the enderman nightmare scene, Steve is shown with white eyes similarly to Herobrine. When asked about it, Torfi Frans Olafsson joked that it was unintentional.


== Gallery ==


=== Promotional artwork ===


=== Screenshots ===


=== GIFs ===


=== Behind-the-scenes ===


==== Concept artwork ====


==== Storyboards ====


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official movie site
A Minecraft Movie on minecraft.net
A Minecraft Movie on Wikipedia
"A MINECRAFT MOVIE: OUT NOW"     by Cristina Anderca   Minecraft.net, April 4, 2025.


== Navigation ==