In Java Edition, achievements were meant to guide players into completing tasks in the game, in addition to serving them challenges to complete. A total of 34 achievements were added before its replacement with the advancement system in snapshot 17w13a.
Out of the 34 achievements, only 14 would be repurposed into the advancement system. The achievements that were repurposed were the achievements of Into Fire, Getting an Upgrade, We Need to Go Deeper, Diamonds!, Beaconator, Sniper Duel, Adventuring Time, Return to Sender, Enchanter, Monster Hunter, Local Brewery, The End?, and Acquire Hardware. Bedrock Edition inherited all of these achievements as its achievement system. 


== Interface ==
The Java Edition achievement system involved a tree composed of achievements. Originally the interface showed the achievement tree on the left, and a 'mini-map' of the tree on the right. The mini-map was removed in the final version, which then simply showed the tree. The background of the tree mimicked the world with dirt at the top with stone spanning below, bedrock at the bottom, and ores distributed as they would be in the world. By clicking and dragging, one could view different branches of the achievement tree. Using the scroll wheel on the mouse zoomed in and out of this display, making it easier to see, at a glance, what had been achieved and was still needed to achieve.
In this screen, achievements had hover-text, which became more detailed the closer the player was to achieving them:

Attained achievements were given as "Name/Description/Taken!" (for instance "Getting Wood/Attack a tree until a block of wood pops out/Taken!").
Unattained achievements for which the player had achieved all the prerequisites were given as "Name/Description".
Unattained achievements for which the player was one or two prerequisites away were given as "Name/Requires X" (for instance "The End./Requires 'The End?'").
Unattained achievements for which the player was three prerequisites away were given as "???/Requires X" (for instance "???/Requires 'The Beginning?'").
Unattained achievements for which the player was four prerequisites away were not given; there was just an icon, no hovertext at all.
Unattained achievements for which the player was more than four prerequisites away were not shown, even as an icon.
Achievements were earned on a per-player, per-world basis: each new player in each new world had the potential to fill out a new achievement tree.
When an achievement was earned, "Achievement Get!" and the name of the achievement would be broadcast in chat to any players in the world.
"Achievement Get!" was a reference to a decade-old meme: early screenshots of Super Mario Sunshine used the Japanese localization, and featured Mario grabbing a Shine Sprite with the prominent text "Shine Get!". Due to the prominence of the game and the attention given to these screenshots, "[noun] Get!" subsequently became a popular term used on image boards as post count benchmarks, which Notch occasionally visits.
Achievements could be obtained in any game mode. Because of this, it was possible to achieve more difficult achievements such as On A Rail, When Pigs Fly, and Sniper Duel, and others by switching into Creative mode.

Return to Sender was an exception to the above, because it required a ghast fireball, and ghasts attack the player only in Survival, Hardcore, and Adventure mode, although it could still be obtained through the /achievement command.
There was an /achievement command that could give and take achievements. When using this command to give an achievement, a player would receive all previously-required achievements in addition to the one being given.
One way a player could reset all achievements in a world was by deleting the "stats" folder in the world file, which would also reset statistics.
When Pigs Fly required Cow Tipper, as cows drop leather, though at the time there was no crafting recipe for a saddle.


== List of achievements ==


== History ==


== References ==