The Adventure Update is the name of two major themed updates for Java Edition, and focused on aspects such as combat, exploration, and adventure. The first part was released as Beta 1.8 on September 14, 2011 which focused on the new hunger feature, terrain and structure generation, and a new mob. The second part was released as official release 1.0.0 on November 18, 2011, adding potions, enchantments, and the new End dimension with an entirely optional final boss.
It was announced on June 10, 2011 by Notch, and was initially planned to be implemented in Java Edition Beta 1.7. An early version of the Adventure Update was playable by fans at Mojang's booth at PAX Prime 2011, which was held between August 26 and 28. Because of the size of the update, the first part of the update was pushed back to Beta 1.8, which became available on September 14, 2011 and the rest of the update being part of Minecraft 1.0, which was released on November 18, 2011. The first pre-release of Minecraft Beta 1.8 was leaked before Beta 1.8's official release, and Notch approved this leak on his Twitter.


== Notable features ==


=== Dimensions ===
The End
A new dimension to serve as the game's ending.
Can only be accessed through the End portal, found in the stronghold.
Composed of a floating island made of only End stone, obsidian, and bedrock.
It's possible for mobs and players to fall from the island and into the Void.
Endermen and the ender dragon can be found here.


=== Blocks ===
 Brewing Stand
Crafted using a blaze rod and three cobblestone.
Used to brew potions.
 Enchanting Table
Crafted using a book, two diamonds, and four obsidian.
Used to enchant tools, weapons, and armor.
 End Portal Frame
 End Portal
 End Stone
Found abundantly in The End dimension.
 Cauldron
Crafted using seven iron ingots.
Can be used to store water, even in the Nether.
 Dragon Egg
A decorative block that can only spawn once upon the ender dragon's defeat.
Using the item causes it to teleport away.
Can be obtained by letting it fall on a block with less than 1 height, such as a torch.
 Fence Gate
Connects to fences.
Used to stop mobs and other players from jumping over.
 Glass Pane
 Iron Bars
 Lily Pad
Can be used to stand on water.
Also breaks any boats.
 Melon
Obtained by growing melon seeds.
Drops itself when broken with Silk Touch, otherwise drops melon slices.
 Monster Egg (now Infested Block)
When broken without Silk Touch, a silverfish spawns.
Attacking a silverfish causes nearby monster eggs to hatch additional silverfish.
 Mushroom Block
 Mycelium
Found in mushroom fields.
Mushrooms can be placed here regardless of light level.
Drops itself when broken with Silk Touch, otherwise drops dirt.
 Vines
Generates on oak trees in swamps.
Propagates to adjacent blocks.
Drops itself when using shears, otherwise drops nothing.
New brick blocks:
 Brick Stairs
 Brick Slab
New stone brick blocks:
 Stone Bricks
 Stone Brick Stairs
 Stone Brick Slab
 Mossy Stone Bricks &  Cracked Stone Bricks
Can only be found in strongholds.
New Nether brick blocks, all can only be found in Nether fortress:
 Nether Bricks
 Nether Brick Stairs
 Nether Brick Fence


=== Items ===
 Blaze Rod
Obtained as drops from blazes.
Can be used to craft blaze powder and brewing stands.
 Blaze Powder
Obtained by crafting a single blaze rod.
Can be used to brew potion of Strength.
Can also be used to craft magma cream and an eye of ender.
 Ender Pearl
Obtained as drops from endermen.
Can be used to teleport to where the pearl lands.
Can also be used to craft an eye of ender.
 Eye of Ender
Obtained by crafting a blaze powder with an ender pearl.
When used, it flies to the direction of where the nearest stronghold is.
Also can be used to activate the End portal.
 Fermented Spider Eye
When used in a brewing stand, it can reverse the effect of potions.
Can also be used to brew potion of Weakness.
 Ghast Tear
Obtained as drops from ghasts
Can be used to brew potion of Regeneration.
 Glass Bottle
Obtained by crafting three glass blocks.
Can be filled with water, either from the source or from a cauldron.
 Glistering Melon Slice
Obtained by crafting a melon slice surrounded by eight gold nuggets.
Can be used to brew potion of Healing.
 Gold Nugget
Obtained by crafting a gold ingot.
Can also be obtained as drops from zombie pigmen.
Used to craft gold ingots and glistering melons.
 Magma Cream
Obtained by crafting a blaze powder with a slimeball.
Can be used to brew potion of Fire Resistance.
 Melon Slice
Obtained by breaking melons without Silk Touch.
Restores 2 () hunger and gives 1.2 hunger saturation.
 Melon Seeds
 Nether Wart
Found in special rooms within Nether fortresses.
Can be farmed using soul sand in the Nether.
Is an essential ingredient for potion brewing.
 Pumpkin Seeds
 Raw Chicken and its  cooked variant
Obtained as drops from chickens.
Raw chicken restores 2 () hunger and gives 1.2 hunger saturation, but has a 30% chance of inflicting Hunger for 30 seconds.
Cooked chicken restores 6 () hunger and gives 7.2 hunger saturation.
 Raw Beef and its  cooked variant
Obtained as drops from cows.
Raw beef restores 3 () hunger and gives 1.8 hunger saturation.
Steak restores 8 () hunger and gives 12.8 hunger saturation.
 Rotten Flesh
Obtained as drops from zombies and zombie pigman, replacing their drop of feathers and cooked porkchops respectively.
Restores 4 () hunger and gives 0.8 hunger saturation, but has a 80% chance of inflicting Hunger for 30 seconds.
 Spider Eye
Obtained as drops from spiders and cave spiders.
Restores 2 () hunger and gives 3.2 hunger saturation, but inflicts Poison for 5 seconds.
Can be used to brew potion of Poison
Can also be used to craft a fermented spider eye.
 Water Bottle
Obtained by using a glass bottle on a water block or from cauldrons filled with water.
Used to brew potions.
New potion items, which are brewed using a brewing stand:
Using gunpowder as a brewing ingredient for a potion turns it into a splash potion.
 Awkward Potion
Brewed by using a Nether wart.
Is the base ingredient for every brewing recipe.
 Mundane Potion
Brewed using any other ingredients aside from Nether wart and glowstone.
Can be used to brew potion of Weakness.
 Thick Potion
Brewed by using a glowstone dust.
Has no other uses.
 Potion of Harming
Brewed by using a fermented spider eye on a potion of Healing or potion of Poison.
 Potion of Healing
Brewed by using a glistering melon slice.
 Potion of Fire Resistance
Brewed by using a magma cream.
 Potion of Poison
Brewed by using a spider eye.
 Potion of Regeneration
Brewed by using a ghast tear.
 Potion of Slowness
Brewed by using a fermented spider eye on a potion of Swiftness
 Potion of Strength
Brewed by using a blaze powder.
 Potion of Swiftness
Brewed by using a sugar.
 Potion of Weakness
Brewed by using a fermented spider eye.
New music discs, all unobtainable in Survival mode:
 C418 - blocks
 C418 - chirp
 C418 - far
 C418 - mall
 C418 - mellohi
 C418 - stal
 C418 - strad
 C418 - ward
 C418 - 11


=== Mobs ===
 Blaze
Spawns from spawners found in the Nether fortress.
Hovers in the air and shoots out fireballs that can set entities and blocks on fire.
Drops blaze rods when killed.
 Cave Spider
Spawns from spawners found in mineshafts.
On Normal or Hard difficulty, cave spiders can inflict players with Poison upon attacking.
Drops string and spider eyes when killed.
 Ender Dragon
A large dragon boss found in The End.
Is healed by End crystals, that if being used when the player destroys it, causes considerable damage to the dragon.
Can swoop down and knock the player back considerably.
When killed, it spawns an exit portal made of bedrock, torches, and a dragon egg.
It also drops 12XP,000 XP, the most out of any mob in the game.
 Enderman
Spawns occasionally in the Overworld in dark environments.
Spawns more frequently in The End.
A neutral mob that becomes aggressive if the player attacks it or stares at it for too long.
Has the ability to teleport around, dodging projectiles and doing so when there is sunlight.
Harmed when coming in contact with water.
Drops ender pearls when killed.
 Magma Cube
Spawns in the Nether
Acts similar to the slime in that they split into smaller groups when killed.
 Mooshroom
Spawns in mushroom islands.
Using a bowl gives mushroom stew.
Similarly to cows, using a bucket gives a milk bucket.
Using shears drops red mushroom and converts the mooshroom back to a normal cow.
Drops leather and raw beef when killed.
Can be bred with wheat.
 Silverfish
Spawns when a monster egg in a stronghold is broken.
Also spawns from a spawner at the End portal room in a stronghold.
 Snow Golem
Summoned by placing two snow blocks on top of each other, and a pumpkin on top.
Attacks any hostile mobs by using snowballs.
Drops snowballs when killed.
 Villager
Spawns in villages.
Currently has no use.


=== Non-mob entities ===
 Experience Orb
Drops from killing mobs.
Attracts to the player to add to their total experience.
 End Crystal
Found on top of End pillars in The End.
Heals the ender dragon.
Explodes if destroyed; also damages the ender dragon if it was being healed by the crystal.


=== World generation ===
Biome generation was given a major overhaul, now being fractal-based.
New biomes:
Extreme Hills (now Windswept Hills)
Generates with mountains and oak trees.
Ice Plains (now Snowy Plains)
Generates with snow and oak trees.
Ice Mountains (has since been removed)
Generates similarly to extreme hills, but with snow on top.
River
Cuts through regions of biomes.
Frozen River
Generates similarly to rivers, but with ice on top.
Ocean
A large, vast biome, made of water.
The bottom floor is abundant with sand, dirt, and clay.
Frozen Ocean
Generates similarly to oceans, but with ice on top.
Mushroom Island
A rare biome found in the middle of the ocean.
Generates with mycelium, huge mushrooms and mooshroom.
No hostile mobs uniquely generate here.
Mushroom Island Shore
The End
Some biomes received some changes:
Swamp were changed to include oak trees with vines and lily pads.
Plains and Desert were made to generate larger than before.
Forest biomes were made more flatter
Other biomes were removed from the game entirely:
Seasonal Forest
Rainforest
Shrubland
Savanna
Tundra
Ice Desert (unused)


=== Structures ===
 Exit portal
Generates upon the ender dragon's defeat and allows the player to return to the Overworld.
Contains the dragon egg.
 Huge mushroom
Ravines
Huge and tall cracks in the overworld that exposes the underground from above.
 Mineshaft
A maze-like system with rails, wooden planks and fences supporting the structure, and occasionally torches.
Contains chests with loot, and cave spider spawners surrounded by cobwebs.
 Nether fortress
A huge elevated structure in the Nether made of Nether bricks.
Zombie pigman, magma cubes, and blazes (from spawners) can be found here.
Nether wart rooms can also generate here.
 Obsidian platform
The starting platform where players spawn in The End.
 Obsidian pillar
Generates throughout The End, with a End crystal on the top.
 Stronghold
An underground structure made of stone bricks.
Can only be located by using an eye of ender.
Silverfish and the End portal can be found here.
 Villages
An above-ground structure found in plains.
Populated with villagers.


=== Gameplay ===
 Creative mode
Originally only present in Java Edition Classic, creative mode allows players to easily create and destroy blocks with an infinite use for any blocks.
Players are immune to any type of damage, aside from The Void.
New to the game is the ability to fly, allowing players to gain or lose altitude for building purposes.
Players with the Operator position on a server can switch back and forth between survival and creative mode.
 Hardcore mode
Similar to Survival mode, but difficulty is locked to Hard.
Upon death, players are prompted to delete their world instead of respawning.
Items can now be repaired by putting two of the same tool in the crafting grid.
 Breeding
Cows, chicken, pigs, and sheep can now follow the player if they're holding wheat, and once used on the mob can be bred to produce a baby.
Once bred, the mobs cannot breed again for five minutes.
None of the babies drop any experience points if killed.
Lambs inherit the wool color of their parents.
Combat
Swords can now initiate a critical attack, which adds considerable amount of damage to a mob.
Swords can also now block damage caused by mobs by using it.
Bows now need to be charged before it can fire a projectile.
 Hunger
Eating food now fills up a hunger bar instead of the player's health.
Hunger is essential to regenerating health and for sprinting.
Various foods have different hunger values and hunger saturation.
Food items can now stack, with the exception of cake and mushroom stew.
 Sprinting
Allows the player to move faster at the cost of hunger.
At 6 () hunger points, the player cannot sprint.
 Experience
Obtained by killing mobs.
Used for enchantments.
 Enchantments
Obtained by using the enchanting table on a tool, weapon, or armor.
Some enchantments have greater levels that increases the effect that they have on tools.
Enchantments include:
Unbreaking
Used on any tool, weapon, or armor to increase the durability of items.
Protection
Used on any armor to decrease damage dealt by mobs.
Blast Protection
Used on any armor to decrease damage dealt by explosions.
Fire Protection
Used on any armor to decrease damage dealt by fire.
Projectile Protection
Used on any armor to decrease damage dealt by any projectile.
Aqua Affinity
Used on helmets to mine faster underwater.
Respiration
Used on helmets to increase breathing time underwater.
Feather Falling
Used on boots to decrease damage dealt from falling.
Efficiency
Used on pickaxes, shovels, and axes to increase mining speed.
Silk Touch
Used on pickaxes, shovels, and axes to drop the mined block itself instead of its normal drop (e.g. stone instead of cobblestone).
Sharpness
Used on swords to increase damage inflicted on mobs.
Smite
Used on swords to increase damage inflicted on undead mobs.
Bane of Arthropods
Used on swords to increase damage inflicted on arthropod mobs.
Knockback
Used on swords to knock mobs further away from the player.
Looting
Used on swords to increase mob drops.
New status effect mechanic, most are obtained via brewing:
 Fire Resistance
Grants immunity to fire and lava.
 Instant Damage
Instantly applies damage to a player or mob.
Heals undead mobs.
 Instant Health
Instantly grants health to a player or mob.
Damages undead mobs.
 Hunger
Decreases the player's hunger bar over time.
 Poison
Inflicts continuous damage on players and mobs.
At one heart, no more additional damage is given.
 Regeneration
Health of players and mobs increases over time.
If the player is damaged, health continues to increase, regardless if the player does not have enough hunger to naturally regenerate their health.
 Slowness
Decreases the movement speed of players and mobs.
 Speed
Increases the movement speed of players and mobs.
 Strength
Increases the damage inflicted on mobs and other players.
 Weakness
Decreases the damage inflicted on mobs and other players.
Other status effects added but were left unused until future updates:
 Blindness
Lowers the visibility for which a player or mob can see.
 Haste
Increases the mining speed.
 Invisibility
Causes players and mobs to become invisible.
 Jump Boost
Increases the jump height that a player or a mob can jump up to.
 Night Vision
Allows players and mobs to see in darkness and underwater.
 Mining Fatigue
Decreases the mining speed.
 Resistance
Increases resistance from damage inflicted on players and mobs.
 Water Breathing
Allows the player to dive underwater without losing oxygen.


=== Other additions ===
11 new achievements
New sound effects, including: chest sound, door/gate sound, bow sound, explosion sound, egg sound, eating sound, sound when XP orbs are collected, sound of bones cracking after fall damage is taken, sound of a tool breaking.
⇧ Shift+clicking the output item in a crafting square crafts all the items at once, and automatically places them in the inventory.
Added an unused world type option.
Improved sunrise and sunset.
Clouds now change color during sunrise and sunset to match the sky color.
Horizon, specifically the haze, changes color more vividly during sunset and sunrise.
New improved lighting
Day/night cycles no longer require chunk updates and is a smooth transition
The lighting on a block is given a tint based on the most prominent source of light
Red from non-sunlight light sources
Blue from moonlight
Total darkness keeps the same black tint
Sunlight gives the same white tint
Non-sky based light now gives a very subtle 'flicker'.
4 new entries in control list:
The keybinds for "Attack", "Use Item", and "Pick Block" can now be remapped.
Player list in multiplayer, keybind defaults to ↹ Tab.
The 'Multiplayer join screen' has been improved, mainly with a server list.


=== Notable changes ===
Score is stated on death based on the total experience orbs held by the player.
Shears can now collect grass and vines.
User-placed leaf blocks no longer decay in the absence of a log.
Cloud height raised to the top of the map, so clouds can no longer phase through blocks.
Cloud movement syncs with the game's time.
Rain and snow both render faster.
Both wooden and stone pressure plates can now be placed on fences.
 Redstone Dust when placed on one place now exhibit a "•" shape.
Bows now have durability.
Armor received a major redesign to how they behave.
Armor can no longer reduce certain damage types that can be covered using enchantments.
Armor now has more durability.
Mob changes:
Passive mobs flee if attacked by the player or other mobs (such as wolves).
The snout on pigs now protrudes from their head.
Arrows that hit a mob visually "stick" into the mob rather than just disappear.
Skeleton arrows originate from about their eyes to the bow, instead of above the head.
Animals no longer despawn, making it possible to capture them.
Skeletons now hold full-size bows.
Main menu changes
The main menu's background is now a panorama.
The version tag is now displayed on the bottom-left rather than the top-left.
New sliders for Field of View and Brightness.
Changes with debug-view (F3).
Mobs are no longer visibly labeled with their entity ID.
The world's numeric seed is displayed in a field below player position.
Changing fog by hotkey now requires debug-view to be open in addition with pressing F.
Changes to block mining were made:
Axes mine fences, wooden doors, wooden pressure plates and crafting tables faster.
Pickaxes mine obsidian and redstone ore faster.
Several blocks and items received new textures/models:
 Block of Diamond
 Block of Gold
 Block of Iron
 Chest, now an entity model
 Cooked Porkchop
 Dirt
 Glowstone
 Grass Block
 Gravel
 Mossy Cobblestone
 Netherrack
 Planks
 Stone


=== Further revisions ===
Beta 1.8
Beta 1.8.1 converted the support beams in mineshafts from planks to oak fences and fixed two bugs.
1.0.0
1.0.1 was server-exclusive and fixed some bugs and crashes on servers.


== Trailer ==

A trailer by Hat Films documenting some of its major features was released on Mojang's official YouTube channel on September 6, 2011.


== Trivia ==
The Adventure Update and Caves & Cliffs are the only Java Edition major updates to be split into 2 parts.
The Adventure Update was the only update that was split in between 2 developmental stages.
The Adventure Update was both the last Beta version and the first full-release of Minecraft.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==