Agnes Larsson (born June 13, 1989) is the Vanilla Minecraft Game Director at Mojang Studios.


== Biography ==
Larsson was born in Falkenberg, a seaside city located in southwest Sweden, and she has enjoyed games since she was three years old. Larsson has a daughter born in 2016, and three cats, named Magnolia, Isacco and Gemina. 
The public Linköping University is the educational institution in which she has participated since 2008, earning a master's degree in Applied Physics and Electrical Engineering in 2013. Before joining Mojang Studios, Larsson was employed by two companies: Scania Group, in Södertälje, Sweden, as a summer intern for two months (June - July 2012); and Configura, in Linköping, Sweden, to finish her master thesis (January - June 2013), and then as a core developer for three years (2013 - 2016).
Larsson was introduced at Mojang as a gameplay developer for Minecraft: Java Edition in August 2016. She led designs of many new additions to Minecraft, such as icebergs, turtles and llamas. As her programming experience progressed, Larsson was made development manager and senior gameplay developer in April 2019, then lead gameplay developer for Minecraft in April 2020, and in February 2021, she was promoted to Minecraft Vanilla Game Director.
Larsson serves as a spokesperson for Mojang Studios as she holds Minecraft workshops for children, for example. Her goal as a development manager is to create as much player happiness as possible using Minecraft Java and Bedrock updates, encompassing various gameplay styles, whereas keeping the principles of the game's inclusivity and simplicity, which include the dynamic of one block at a time. With the nickname of LadyAgnes, Agnes Larsson is known for appearing in the Minecraft Live teaser videos that show her and Jens Bergensten in a two-dimensional type of Minecraft. Nir Vaknin, a Minecraft gameplay developer, trivially told during Minecraft Live 2020 that Agnes likes to make the roofs of her houses with wool. In Minecraft Dungeons, a painting of her character on a church seems to be fancier than the other paintings and it has a cat besides her. Agnes' Minecraft character also appears in the screenshot of Mojang's blog post about the Java Edition 16w43a snapshot, where it is pictured fishing in a river biome. Larsson has appeared in many Minecraft Lives, introducing game drops, and often testing the new features with special guests.
In April 2022, Larsson did a TED Talk in Vancouver, Canada, under the topic "The Awesome Potential of Many Metaverses". In the talk, Larsson demonstrated how Minecraft worlds act as unique metaverses where players can express their creativity. She also shared screenshots from her Minecraft world on which she had played for more than 10 years.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==