A bat is a type of flying mammal, and a primary antagonist of the Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles book Night of the Bats!


== Appearance ==
Contrary to Minecraft bats, this species is slightly more humanoid, with smaller yet sharper ears and a humanoid face. They have two sharp fangs underneath a boyish nose, lacking visible claws. Their legs are rectangular in shape, with little black feet.


== Behavior ==
Bats are a nocturnal predator able to fly, often traveling in swarms. They are known to be prone to hiding, able to end up inside of obscure locations with minimal detection, and possess sharp teeth. Although they possess functioning eyes, they are able to find their way around by emitting pulses from their mouth or nose, known as echolocation. Some believe that they are capable of drinking blood, but this is not the case. 


== Biography ==
During a typical day at Woodsword Middle School,  Doc Culpepper discovered a swarm of bats living inside a ventilation shaft. She realized they were approaching the classroom of Ms. Minerva, rushing over to warn her, but it was too late. The bats overtook the room, causing everyone to evacuate. Minerva accuses Culpepper of experimenting on the bats, but insists they're just an infestation, heading off to try and solve the problem. Later, Culpepper holds a class that tries to teach Minerva's class about the situation and associated bat physiology, which doesn't help Jodi's suspicion she was responsible for the infestation. Po proposes that they came from Minecraft.
The next day, the class talk about an unrelated problem in Minecraft, referring to hostile mobs as "pests." Ms. Minerva overhears this, revealing the bats will be exterminated from the gym over the weekend, horrifying her students. Later, Ash discovers construction work underway at a local park, and meets a saddened man mourning the development, which causes Harper to realize the bats came from there. With this new information, the gang elects to help the bats, only for Ash to realize that the Wilding Scouts are having a meeting in the school gym. She manages to explain the situation upon getting there, who agree to help keep them contained.
On Saturday, the exterminator arrives to the school, and is annoyed when it's explained the situation has been resolved peacefully. Similarly, Doc Culpepper arrives with a crooning fork, but discovers the kids have relocated the bats to a shed in the school lawn, made out of wood from Ash's treehouse.


== Appearances ==
Minecraft: Woodsword Chronicles
Night of the Bats!
Ghast in the Machine! (mentioned)
Last Block Standing!


== Gallery ==


== Navigation ==