1.7.0 is a major update to Bedrock Edition released on October 15–16, 2018. It adds the /scoreboard command, the ability to eat food in Creative, The Hive multiplayer server, and highlights for player names in the chat, and also fixes bugs. This was the last version to support Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich) and Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean).


== Additions ==


=== Gameplay ===
Scoreboard system

Adds basic scoreboard functionality.
Track, edit and display certain objectives per player.
Used via /scoreboard command or command block.


=== Command format ===
/scoreboard 

Used to interact with the scoreboard system.
/gamerule

Added commandblocksenabled rule.
Toggles command block functionality.


=== Servers ===
Featured servers

Added  The Hive.


== Changes ==


=== Items ===
All foods

Can now be eaten while the player is in Creative mode or when the difficulty is set to Peaceful.
Chorus fruit 

Moved from Nature to Items section in the Creative inventory.
Raw fish and Cooked fish

Have been renamed to "raw cod" and "cooked cod", respectively.


=== General ===
Chat

Mentions of player names are now highlighted yellow in chat.
Typing @ in chat will now show an autocomplete list of player names.
Marketplace

Made it easier to find purchased content, search, and go home from the top of the Marketplace screen.
Improved search results, sorting, and filtering.
The player can now send links to Marketplace content using the share button.
Pause menu

Added an ”Invite to game” button under the player list.
The name of the world is now displayed at the top of the player list.
Splash

Removed "Down with O.P.P.!"


== Fixes ==
Crashes/performance

Fixed the cause of over 20 crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that occurred when a trident with Channeling was shot from a dispenser and hit a mob or player during a thunderstorm.
Fixed a crash that occurred when breaking a door that many villagers were trying to open or enter. (MCPE-34742)
Fixed a crash that occurred when using a 128x resource pack on Nintendo Switch.
Fixed a crash that occurred when attempting to stack explorer maps when trading with a cartographer villager.
Fixed a crash that occurred when loading the settings screen right after loading a resource pack.
Fixed a crash that occurred when backing out of a Realm's edit menu after attempting to download a world but not having enough free space.
General

Fixed an exploit that allowed custom skins with custom and invisible geometry, causing unfair advantages in multiplayer sessions. (MCPE-37343)
Added additional messaging to disable Multiplayer in world settings to play split-screen without a Nintendo Switch Online membership.
Guests rejoining in a different order than they joined for the first time no longer generate different progress during split-screen gameplay.
Synced cloud worlds on Xbox One now display the proper date on the Worlds list.
Fixed player permission issues that prevented players from building or mining.
Fixed Super Mario Mash-up Pack worlds not opening if created before version 1.6.0. (MCPE-37327)
Fixed textures not applying on Nintendo Switch when the world is hosted on another platform.
Fixed split-screen players not being able to join Local Network games on Nintendo Switch.
Fixed Microsoft Account sign-in failures on Nintendo Switch.
Fixed an issue that caused the game to not properly detect if a world was played in a version later than the current one.
Gameplay

Crouching on ladders will no longer stop when opening the pause menu or inventory screen (MCPE-33209)
Swimming while moving the camera with touch controls no longer breaks blocks. (MCPE-33470)
Items can once again be dropped while in a boat.
The Looting III enchantment once again increases mob loot drop chances (MCPE-35307)
When a player equips a carved pumpkin as a helmet, that player's marker now disappears from the locator maps of other players.
Players no longer teleport to vehicles/mobs that are hit by an ender pearl when the vehicle/mob is in the player's render distance.
Fixed players getting stuck in the edges of Old worlds at 128 or in the Void.
When dealing a killing blow to mobs using Knockback, they now actually get knocked back. (MCPE-19222)
Items

Enchantment books are no longer lost after using an anvil to rename an item and adding an incompatible enchantment.
Tridents with Loyalty no longer get lost in the void when used in the End.
Phantom spawn eggs can now be obtained using Pick Block.
Players using controllers can again drop held items while in a minecart.
Leads no longer detach and disappear when reentering a world. (MCPE-33263)
Infinity bow arrows are no longer picked up immediately after being fired when the bow is slightly drawn. (MCPE-35821)
Renamed spawn eggs now produce renamed mobs.
Flaming arrows once again ignite minecarts with TNT. (MCPE-35776)
Mobs

If a pet forgets what player is their owner after updating the game, it will sit down and wait for someone to interact with them & this player becomes the new owner of the pet. The pet doesn't need to be re-tamed with items. (MCPE-33152)
Mobs can now walk through soul sand with nether wart. (MCPE-12719)
Skeleton horses and zombie horses no longer die after a certain amount of time. (MCPE-35215)
Horses in the same boat as the player no longer get hit when targeted by blocks in front of the player. (MCPE-30299)
Releasing a tropical fish from a bucket of fish no longer releases a random fish but the one that was originally caught.
Armored withers can no longer be damaged with thrown tridents.
Drowned no longer have swimming animation while riding in boat.
The inventory of ridden mounts can no longer be accessed by another player while the player is riding it.
Mobs can no longer spawn in small gaps unless they can fit. (MCPE-31193)
Enderman can no longer spawn in two block high gaps with slabs above. (MCPE-28626)
Cured zombie villagers spawned from zombie villages can now be traded with. (MCPE-34603)
Pigs with saddles now throw players off their back when they start moving though 2-block-high bodies of water.
Blocks

Fixed a bug where it was sometimes not possible for a player to place a block in the same block space where they are standing. (MCPE-31030)
Sea pickles now break instantly in Survival mode. (MCPE-36250)
Barrier blocks can no longer be destroyed by the ender dragon. (MCPE-34410)
Monster spawners no longer drop as items after an explosion. (MCPE-32657)
Rails are once again broken by flowing water.
Realms

A message now appears on the Realms list if Xbox Live privileges are preventing Realms from being played.
Clarified the text that appears when replacing a world on a Realm.
World generation

Ladders no longer generate in midair on village church structures.
Fixed structures generating inside ocean monuments.
Graphical

Fixed entities missing body parts on various Android devices. (MCPE-34385)
It is now easier to see through water in Flat worlds. (MCPE-36078, MCPE-35244)
Adjusted in-hand placement of bows and tridents in split-screen.
Fixed visual effects not appearing when using an enchanted trident with Riptide. (MCPE-34448)
Audio

Sound once again resumes after receiving a notification on iOS devices. (MCPE-15841)
The proper sound now plays when the wither is spawned. (MCPE-35179)
Banners now have the correct placing and breaking sounds. (MCPE-31188)
Land-based mobs now play sounds underwater.
User interface

Fixed several items not stacking properly in inventory and chests when using touch input (MCPE-32347)
Using the Quick Move option now properly stacks the taken items with stacks of the same item in the player inventory when there is an empty hotbar slot.
Cursor D-pad input no longer gets stuck on the inventory screen or pause menu. (MCPE-33895)
Removed the "Take Half" tooltip when highlighting the anvil's output slot.
Item tooltips that display "Can break" and "Can be placed on" now show the proper translation for the given blocks.
Fixed incorrect button focus on the chat screen.
Fixed formatted text getting cut off on the HUD.
Fixed overlapping text on the enchantment table screen.
Commands

Fixed input on minecarts with command block not saving between game sessions.
Fixed trapdoors losing their orientation after being cloned.
Autofill commands now recognize a player name in brackets and places it between quotes. (MCPE-34913)
The /teleport command now reliably teleports riders with entities.
The /title command can now run whilst a title is visible on screen. (MCPE-25685)
Add-ons

Using behavior files to change the shooting location of a projectile no longer makes the projectile shoot and miss the target.
Mobs now stop moving when all movement components are removed from their behavior.
The 'can_float' component now works properly with 'minecraft:navigation.float' on flying mobs.


== Videos ==


== Trivia ==
1.7.0 features the least amount of content in any major update.


== Navigation ==