This is a list of Bedrock Edition 1.10.0 development versions.


== beta 1.10.0.3 ==
Beta 1.10.0.3 is the first beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.10.0, released on January 30, 2019, which adds the wandering trader, illager beast, composters, stonecutters, campfires, lecterns, and the loom.


=== Additions ===


==== Blocks ====
Composters

Currently have no functionality.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Campfires

Currently have no functionality.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Lecterns

Placing a book and quill or written book on the lectern allows multiple players to read it together.
A book and quill can be read, but not edited when placed on a lectern.
Loom

Used to easily make patterns for banners.
New stonecutter

Currently has no functionality.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Sweet berry bushes

Can be found in Taiga and Snowy Taiga biomes.
Can be planted from sweet berries.
Have 4 growth stages.
Drop 2-3 sweet berries when harvested.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Jigsaw Blocks

Currently have no functionality.
Can only be obtained via an inventory editor.


==== Items ====
Banner patterns

Crafted using the Loom.
6 types of banner patterns: Creeper Charge, Flower Charge, Skull Charge, Thing, Field Masoned, and Bordure Indented.
Sweet berries

Collected from sweet berry bushes.
Can be eaten, restoring 2 () hunger points.
Can be planted into the ground and grown into sweet berry bushes.
Shields

New tool that can be used to block most incoming attacks.
Sneaking or mounting a mob activates the shield when equipped in either hand.
Crafted with 6 planks and 1 iron ingot.
Spawn Eggs

Wandering Trader.
Illager Beast.


==== Mobs ====
Cat skins

Added Jellie, the community cat contest winner.
Illager beasts

Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Currently only have the basic AI.
Currently still named Illager Beast.
Wandering traders

A type of villager that appears at a village's gathering site periodically and stays for a period of 23 in-game days (4060 minutes of real-life time). This trader offers items from a wide variety of different biomes, random dyes, and other rare materials.
Accompanied by a custom llama.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.


==== World generation ====
Pillager outposts

Generate in the same biomes as villages, and pillagers will respawn around the tower.
Can be located using /locate pillageroutpost
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Can generate with a tall foundation.
Generate with black banners, instead of illager banners.


=== Changes ===


==== Blocks ====
Bells

Improved and added placement features.
Blast furnaces, grindstones, and smokers

Added crafting recipe.
Cartography tables and barrels

Added crafting recipe.
Chorus flowers

Now break when shot with an arrow.
Crops and nether warts

Now have placement sounds.
Dead bushes

Can now be used as fuel.
Dispensers

Dispensers with shears in them can now shear sheep.
Lanterns

Can now be properly attached to the bottom or the top of blocks.
Added crafting recipe.
Now have animated textures.
Leaves

Now have a chance to drop sticks when decaying.
Wet sponges

Dry out immediately when placed in the Nether.
Wood and stripped wood

Are no longer unused.
Can now be crafted with 4 logs or stripped logs.
White carpets

Can now be dyed directly in the crafting table.


==== Items ====
Beetroot soup and rabbit stew

Now have shapeless crafting recipes.
Crossbows

Are no longer available only through Experimental Gameplay.


==== Mobs ====
Cats

Are now healed when fed raw cod and raw salmon.
Creepers

Now drop a music disc when killed by a stray.
Pillagers

Are no longer hidden under Experimental Gameplay.
Added new sounds. (MCPE-39111)
Villagers

Split into 2 different mobs.
New villagers spawn in new villages.
New villager behavior:
Implemented some of the new villager schedule behaviors.
Implemented new villager sleep behaviors.
Villagers may now wander to the village outskirts.
Villagers will attempt to find a door when it rains during the day, but will navigate to their bed at night.
Updated and improved pathfinding.
Villagers now have a visual based trading system, and will hold up the item they wish to trade.
Villagers have new clothing to indicate their level, profession, and biome.
Villagers will now mingle together around gathering sites in the village.
Librarians will inspect bookshelves.
Added Mason and green-robed villagers.
Villagers can change professions depending on the job site blocks available in the village.
Can claim beds and job site blocks.
Villagers can now interact with the corresponding job site block.
Added Mason, green-coated (nitwit), and Unemployed (no-overlay) villager professions.
Old villagers spawn inside igloo basements with textures and behavior prior to Village & Pillage.
Zombie villagers

Split into 2 different mobs.
New zombie villagers have biome-specific and profession skin layers.
Old zombie villagers still spawn in igloo basements.
JSON

Mob events and behavior can be scheduled using JSON.


==== World generation ====
Igloos

Now generate with a red bed.
Villages

Have a new look, differing per biome.
Added village job sites and gathering sites.
Number of houses depend on beds.
Taiga villages are now more common.
Removed zombie villages, due to new village changes.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Can be located with both /locate village and /locate newvillage.
/locate village is now not always guaranteed to locate a village, while /locate newvillage always point to villages.
No longer generate in Old world types.
Meeting points generate with various bell types.
Job and gathering sites, that villagers will mingle around together, generate in villages.
Job sites can be built by players by placing a job site block in village boundaries.
Most strongholds no longer generate under village wells - they now generate under village meeting points.
Reduced the chance of strongholds generating under villages. .


==== General ====
Texture Update

The new vanilla textures are now set as the default pack.
Data-driven animation

Refactored the animation system to support hierarchical animation, and treat animations and animation controllers as 'animations'.
Updated JSON with new animation support, upgraded schema for actor definition, and included upgrades for animation controllers and actor definitions.
Converted sheep and pigs to the new animation system.
Move locators to bones.
Blend state transitions.
Removed cod lead locator.
Renamed ActorAnimation to ActorSkeletalAnimation.
Initial poly mesh support.
Added TextureMesh geometry.
Flipping data-driven entities test to enable new entities to use bind_pose_rotation.
Events now have defined data objects containing all event data.
Added new villager animations.
Data-driven models

Added default parenting to the Evoker nose, in line with over villager-derived mobs.
Entity scripting function

Is no longer behind Experimental Gameplay.
Help

Pressing help button links to the relevant how to play section.
Updated the how to play section.
Particles

Can now be edited using standard JSON formatting.
Renamed some particles include prefix test_ to example_.
Removed test_mule and test_sphere.
Permissions

Improvements to the operator status and permission settings, with the added option to enable cheats or not.
Resource packs

Are now separate from world templates and can be updated independently in existing worlds.
Scripting system

Players without scripting enabled now see an appropriate message if they try and join an incompatible server that has scripting enabled.
Updating a player's position with scripting now correctly syncs with the player.
Creating actors via script now avoids the spawning logic.
This prevents hard-coded logic like ocelots spawning along with baby ocelots.
Improved the message wording for players who get disconnected due to unsupported scripts.
Allow events to fire without a defined event data object.
Renaming Views to Actor/Entity Queries.
Added sound events to the scripting API.
Add Event Data to load_ui.
Custom UIs can now be made like regular in-game UI screens.
Added 'Global Objects' to the scripting API.
Refactored JavaScript object registration.
Added the ability to enable and disable scripting error and warning logging.


=== Fixes ===
Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that could occur when repeatedly attempting to cancel joining a multiplayer game.
Resource packs that are nested in an extra folder no longer cause the game to crash.
Stacking slabs to make a double slab no longer crashes the game.
Fixed a crash when trying to launch the marketplace packs "City Cars" and "Mineville Film Studios" on mobile devices.
Worlds no longer show single player only warning message when multiplayer is enabled. (MCPE-39194)
Player position is now accurately saved when exiting and rejoining a world.
Removing ticking areas from the game now correctly frees up used memory.
The descend button now works correctly when underwater and using touch controls.
Turtles no longer levitate above the ground.
Optimized particles to improve performance.
Players are now informed if they are disconnected from Xbox Live when the Xbox console is resumed from standby.
Looping UI animations no longer increase memory usage over time.
Damage cooldown no longer hinders other mob attacks.
Colored beacon beam textures no longer appear compressed.
Wither skeletons and vex mobs can be renamed with nametags. (MCPE-20701)
Horizontal scaffolding extensions can now be placed over non-solid blocks correctly. (MCPE-39296)
Fixed the head rotation of pigmen when non-standard texture packs are used. (MCPE-40629)
'Monster Egg' blocks are now named 'Infested blocks', to match the Java Edition.
Infested bricks mined with silk touch now drop as its non-infested variant.
Texture packs applied to a freshly created world are now displayed in the active list.
Players are prompted to redownload packs if they have been applied to a world but removed from the cache.
Armor stands can now hold unloaded crossbows. (MCPE-39094)
It is now possible to climb through snow layers placed on top of scaffolding. (MCPE-39324)
Pandas eating bamboo now show correctly colored food particles. (MCPE-38285)
Strongholds now generate with the correct stair variants again. (MCPE-39380)
Weapons held by armor stands are now the correct size. (MCPE-39064)
Food held by pandas is now sized and positioned correctly. (MCPE-39061)
Fixed a bug where players could respawn some distance away from their beds. (MCPE-39261)
Fixed a bug where lava could hurt a player through block corners. (MCPE-37726)
Fixed the pathfinding for zombies chasing villagers inside buildings. (MCPE-37424)
Hanging banners no longer show as floor standing banner variants. (MCPE-39507)
Scaffolding no longer gets left hanging unsupported when being placed rapidly. (MCPE-38338)
Snow layers generate around grass and flowers again in snow biomes. (MCPE-38018)
The correct amount of white terracotta now generates in mesa biomes.
Skeletons once again attack iron golems.
Mobs no longer spawn with heart particles.
Added correct biome shading for water in bamboo jungles.
Cats can now be healed by feeding them fish.
Fixed a crash that could happen after running scripts for a long period of time.
The re-center button on Minecraft VR has been mapped to Y now instead of X.
Chest minecarts now drop their contents if destroyed with the /kill command.
Global resource packs no longer show in the active packs list if they are not applied to a specific world.
Fixed a z-fighting texture issue on the grindstone block.
The new dye types can now be used to dye shulker mobs. (MCPE-40279)
Fixed the wither's ranged and swoop attacks. (MCPE-39773)
Multiple commands run from functions now run from the correct point of execution. (MCPE-38983 / MCPE-39785)
The 'Unlock Template World Options' popup no longer has a placeholder type message.
Packs missing 'experimental_custom_ui' don't allow loading UI anymore.
'minecraft:look_at' component now has consistent naming between scripting and JSON.
Upside-down Shulkers now have the correct opening animation. (MCPE-40110)
Fixed the texture of food being eaten by pandas.
Menu buttons no longer stay highlighted after being selected. (MCPE-37640)
Fixed an issue related to scoreboard not showing the correct entries.
Passive mobs now spawn on the correct block types. (MCPE-39727)
Mutated birch forest biomes now generate with extra tall birch trees again. (MCPE-29698)
Players can no longer receive command feedback with cheats disabled. (MCPE-39590)
Trapdoors in shipwrecks are now correctly rotated.
Cats now spawn correctly in previously generated villages.
Fixed the issue with wrongly scaled textures that affected some Windows 10 users. (MCPE-39081)
Fixed a bug that could cause the wrong description for Marketplace bundles.
"New" banner now shows correctly on all new marketplace items.
Fixed skeleton melee attack animation.
Fixed the bug that caused the FPS value in the beta header information to always read 0.0. (MCPE-30536)
Fixed a crash that could occur when rejoining the game in the End dimension.
Fixed a bug that prevented the game from launching correctly on some devices. (MCPE-39877)
Fix a crash that could sometimes occur when copying a large world on Switch.
Partially copied worlds will now show up in settings storage tab only.
Fixed a crash that could occur when using a jukebox on Nintendo Switch.
Fixed the spider leg animation in the Dwarven Mining Company marketplace map.
Fixed an issue on Xbox one that would disable LAN games when the user does not have multiplayer permissions.
Fix issue of region filters not working if inside a custom spawn event.
Various fixes and improvements to the randomTickSpeed function.
Graphics no longer become corrupted when disabling texel anti-aliasing on Nintendo Switch. (MCPE-34820)
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when loading the game.
Various fixes and improvements to the Marketplace sorting and search results.
Fixed an issue with screenshots taken in VR-mode.
Fixed an issue that could cause the user to get stuck on the 'Converting World' screen if the game is suspended.
Players who are disconnected while downloading a multiplayer pack no longer get stuck on the saving world screen.
Fixed sleep goal so mobs can get in beds that have blocks on the sides.
Charging a crossbow with a firework rocket no longer briefly shows an arrow being loaded. (MCPE-40745)
Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox if a user was not signed in correctly.
Tags that start with a percentage now display correctly.
Cornflowers now render correctly in item frames.
Enabling 'Touch only affects the hotbar' on Nintendo Switch now works as expected: (MCPE-38614)
Controller sensitivity setting (touching the screen no longer interferes with controller movement).
Removed increased build distance in creative including place/mine tooltips.
When the last hotbar slot selected, touching the screen no longer switches to the 8th slot.
Fixed an issue that could cause a crash when downloading a large world on Nintendo Switch.
Fixed a bug where kelp would grow in horizontal flowing water. (MCPE-37155)
Fixed a crash that could occur when entering a portal on some servers.
Fixed an issue that could cause lighting issues in chunks when flying around.
Cats are no longer tempted by food when they are too far from the player.
Fixed wither skeleton model geometry issue that was affecting some marketplace content.
Using scoreboard selectors no longer adds extra characters to player names.
Fixed animations for cow and parrot mobs.
Ender dragon attacks now show a particle trail.
Mobs can no longer destroy paintings if mob griefing is disabled. (MCPE-38916)
Script queries no longer show error messages when detecting dropped item entities. (MCPE-40437)
Fixed a bug with converted worlds on Nintendo Switch that prevented cross platform multiplayer. (MCPE-34641)
Renamed player_attacked_actor scripting event to player_attacked.
Scripting can now be used to attach particles to mobs correctly.
Fixed a crash that could occur when loading large world templates.
Reduced the number of drowned mob spawning. (MCPE-34032)
Firework stars no longer appear black in Creative inventory.
The scripting event 'entity_created' will now fire correctly.
Fixed an issue with the scripting event 'isValidEntity' not working as expected.
Fixed the 'damage_sensor' scripting component that was not working as expected.
Existing armor stands no longer turn white.
Fixed an issue with the black and pink missing texture icon that would sometimes appear in the marketplace.
Fixed a bug that could cause missing textures if the player suspended the game while it is still loading.
Fixed an issue with the sword held by the vex mob.


== beta 1.10.0.4 ==
Beta 1.10.0.4 is the second and final beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.10.0, released on February 6, 2019, which changes the texture of the smithing table and fixes bugs.


=== Changes ===


==== Blocks ====
Smithing table

Changed texture to match the texture in Java Edition.


=== Fixes ===
Fixed a crash that could occur when spawning near new villages on mobile devices.
Mason villagers now have trades.
Hills in tall birch forests now generate at the correct height again.
Scoreboards now work correctly with custom named entities.
Scripting documentation tweaks and fixes:
Removed extra spaces from the Scripting documentation to allow scripts to be copied and pasted more easily.
Adjusted scripting documentation to use lower case letters for position parameters in minecraft:pick_hit_result_changed.
Updated the scripting documentation to show how to better use initialize() function.
createEntity() documentation calls out the created entity type and identifier.
There is now documentation for the manifest file.
Tabs are now converted into 2 spaces when printing examples as HTML.
SpatialQuery documentation now mentions that the 3 optional parameters are all or nothing.
Fixed a bug with scripting level component documentation not generating.
Fixed a scripting crash that could occur when using SpawnParticleInWorld events.
Scripting isValidEntity now correctly checks for valid entities only.
Fixed incorrect results for hasComponent on some entity components.
Fixed an issue where terrain is often not adjusted to generated structures in villages, causing floating platforms.
Fixed an issue where redundant dirt blocks could generate inside village structures.
Fixed a crash that could occur when launching the game.
Fixed a crash that was preventing iOS players from accepting game invitations.
Ender dragon is no longer invisible when respawned. (MCPE-41377)
Lectern models now support higher resolution textures.
Custom entity spawn eggs now work correctly in dispensers. (MCPE-40408)
Custom entities can now be used with the [type=] command argument.
Fixed the pillager spawn egg texture when it is placed in an item frame. (MCPE-39530)
Players can no longer respawn with shields in their hands.
Shields now appear correctly when being rapidly raised and lowered in third person view.
Shields now always shake when blocking damage.
Activated shield now animates properly when holding a crossbow. (MCPE-41255)
Fixed a crash that could occur when spawning in a custom entity.
Fixed a z-fighting texture issue on the zombie horse mane.
Endermen no longer look like they are always holding something when attacking.
Fixed a crash that could occur when adding a resource pack with a missing pack icon.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when loading in some resource packs.
Baby mobs no longer briefly appear adult-sized when being leashed.
Worlds now appear in the correct order on Xbox One after restarting the game.
Breeding animals no longer spawns two baby mobs.
Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox One when copying worlds.
Fixed a bug that prevented items from being crafted from the recipe book if the all items option was toggled.
Fixed another issue that could cause the game to sometimes not load past the splash screen on some devices. (MCPE-35078)
The wandering trader llama no longer renders with incorrect textures. (MCPE-41162)


== Notes and references ==


== Navigation ==