This is a list of Bedrock Edition 1.13.0 development versions.


== beta 1.13.0.1 ==
Beta 1.13.0.1 is the first beta version released for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, which adds foxes and fixes some bugs.


=== Additions ===


==== Blocks ====
Structure void

It is an intangible block used to indicate to the structure blocks that certain air blocks can be overridden by previously existing blocks in the destination.
Intended to be a replacement for the function barrier blocks used to convey (during early development), so they can form part of the structure itself.
They are invisible.
They are visible only when they are inside a structure being saved by a save structure blocks and the toggle option "show invisible blocks" is true.
Additionally, any placed structure void instantly becomes visible when the player holds the item in their hand, similar to the barrier.
Allows for empty spaces in a structure.
Unlike air, it does not overwrite blocks where it is loaded.
Example: If the player loads a 2 block high structure with air at the top and a structure void at the bottom into a 2 block high area of stone, the top block becomes air but the bottom remains stone.
Has a full block hitbox.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.


==== Items ====
Spawn eggs

Added fox spawn egg.


==== Mobs ====
Foxes

Spawn as red foxes in snowless taiga biomes, and as snow foxes in snowy taiga biomes
Trusted foxes defend trusted players.
Can pick up and carry items in their mouths.
May sometimes eat what they are carrying.
Wolves and polar bears attack them.


==== Command format ====
Added tab-complete for writing coordinate commands.
Added new PersistComponent command for mob persistence.
Improved many map-making commands.


==== General ====
Accessibility

Accessibility settings can now be accessed from the in-game chat and has been revamped.
Menu screen

Changed the font of the menus.


=== Changes ===


==== Blocks ====
Structure blocks

Added Save and Load behind the Experimental Gameplay toggle.
Added new textures and other functionalities.


==== Items ====
Maps

Locked maps now have a unique inventory icon.


==== Mobs ====
Camera

Can no longer be obtained with the /give command.
Added functionality. Screenshots took by camera can now be saved into the screenshots folder.
Illager captains

The player now correctly receives the Bad Omen effect whenever the illager captain dies in combat with the player.
Villagers

Villager trade levels now match Java Edition with 5 profession level badges, rather than 3 level badges. (MCPE-43206)
Cartographer trades now require 11 glass panes instead of 10.


==== General ====
Improved performance.
Added a message that informs players whether a Marketplace pack is compatible with their version of Minecraft (specifically if it includes blocks from a newer version of the game).
Minecraft on iOS no longer shows the "Do you want to Close Minecraft?" pop-up since iOS doesn't support that app behavior.
Map-making and add-on improvements.
How to Play

Updated the information about repairing elytra, which now describes using phantom membranes to repair them instead of leather. (MCPE-41608)
Tweaked the armor section so that it specifies that carved pumpkins should be used as protection from endermen.
Tweaked the wording in the raids section.


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed inconsistent crash while navigating the game's UI.
Fixed a crash related to cached resources that could sometimes occur.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when launching the game on Oculus Rift.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when exiting the game on Windows 10.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when resuming the game on Oculus Rift.
Fixed a freezing issue that could sometimes occur when resuming the game on Windows 10 Mobile.
Fixed a crashing issue on iOS when relaunching the game with a global resource pack applied.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when exploring world templates.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when launching the game on Xbox.
Fixed a crash that could occur when launching the game on Xbox.
Fixed a crash that could occur when typing some characters onto a sign.
Fixed a crash that could occur when playing the Inspiration Hub world.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when trying to create a new world or when joining a multiplayer game.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when signing into Microsoft account.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when choosing certain skins.
Fixed a crash that could occur when creating a new world using some marketplace packs.
Fixed a crash that would happen when typing certain characters into chat. (MCPE-44419)
Fixed a crash that could occur when switching profiles on Xbox One.
Fixed a crash that could occur when breaking a block underneath detector rail blocks.
Fixed a crash that could occur if a split-screen player leaves the game while an execute command targets them in a function.
Fixed a crash that could occur when leaving and rejoining a world whilst an adult panda is eating bamboo.
Fixed a crash that could occur after a player leaves on 3-4 player split-screen on the "Wildlife: Jungle" map.
Performance

Improved graphics rendering performance.
Improved world launch time by optimizing network and resource tasks.
Optimized grass growth block ticking.
General

Beacons no longer play conduit ambient sound, but play the correct beacon ambient sound now. (MCPE-34413)
Accessibility color and contrast fixes and tweaks for dropdowns, buttons and the Play screen.
Players can now switch between user accounts on Xbox One without restarting the game.
Fixed the messaging when trying to import a world template made in a newer version.
Leads now connect to mobs at the correct position.
The world loading screen now closes if the acceptable amount of chunks are loaded. (MCPE-44815)
(Partial fix for MCPE-44815, the issue with chunks sometimes not loading in correctly is still being worked on.)
Furnaces now play all applicable sounds, and at the correct pitch. (MCPE-43915)
Recently viewed skins now appear in the correct order in the skin picker menu.
Gameplay

Splash water bottles now deal damage to blaze and enderman mobs again. (MCPE-42589)
Split-screen players that join a world now spawn in the correct safe place and no longer spawn in the void.
Arrows now cause sand and gravel to fall again. (MCPE-18257)
Fixed pitch issue with the camera that caused the player to walk backwards when looking straight up.
The camera now rotates correctly when in third-person view.
Changed how the bell item is held in the player's hand, so that it is held with an item rather than a weapon. (MCPE-43638)
Damage sound is no longer heard when a player falls or lands in Creative gamemode. (MCPE-515)
The camera is no longer present in the Creative inventory without the "Education Edition" toggle being turned on.
Players in water are now knocked back by TNT explosions.
Fire charges launched from dispensers now ignite minecarts with TNT.
Using bone meal on a flower now generates more flowers of that type around it, rather than just dandelions and poppies. (MCPE-7979)
Shulker boxes can no longer be placed in the same space as the player. (MCPE-39674)
Standing in a cauldron of lava now deals the correct amount of damage to players. (MCPE-39356)
Using 'Place All' (Y) on the cartography table output slot only crafts as many of the shown result possible.
The player now correctly receives the bad omen effect whenever the illager captain dies in combat with the player.
Mobs can no longer break turtle eggs when mob griefing is disabled. (MCPE-36245)
Falling snow no longer replaces other blocks. (MCPE-44613)
Loyalty tridents now return to the correct player after bouncing off a shield. (MCPE-44225)
Nether portals now spawn zombie pigmen in easy difficulty. (MCPE-45934)
Fixed issue of Riptide tridents not propelling players forward correctly.
Balanced enchants on books - those with 3 or more enchantments no longer always have Feather Falling IV and/or Blast Protection IV. (MCPE-41944)
Campfires can now be doused with splash water potions only, to match the Java Edition.
Explosions no longer destroy and drop end gateway blocks. (MCPE-47174)
Fixed creeper farms by adjusting mob height spawning logic. (MCPE-45935)
Lava now correctly affects mobs that come into contact with it. (MCPE-45531)
World generation

Chests that generate in desert temples now face the correct way. (MCPE-37393)
Mobs

Equipment on armor stands now render correctly if the armor stand is affected by the invisibility effect. (MCPE-39779)
Iron golems are no longer pushed back by explosions. (MCPE-43662)
Ravagers now pathfind through water.
Fixed sitting position for baby zombie jockey.
Fixed the death animation for spiders. (MCPE-41417)
Lazy pandas no longer float above the ground when lying on their backs. (MCPE-43164)
Baby pigs turn into baby pigmen when struck by lightning. (MCPE-38134)
Fixed player alignment to bed when sleeping.
Zombies can no longer break iron doors. (MCPE-43725)
Village mobs (such as iron golems and cats) no longer spawn inside of blocks (such as grass path and farmland blocks). (MCPE-44442, MCPE-41886)
Mobs can now path find correctly through waterlogged blocks. (MCPE-37005)
Mobs can now path find correctly on unlit campfire blocks.
Mobs no longer attempt to path find over 1.5 block high obstacles. (MCPE-45256)
Villagers now all go to sleep correctly when the night comes.
Strays and skeletons now show enchanted bows when held.
Villagers now show angry particles when hit by a player, even if they haven't been traded with yet. (MCPE-29700)
Mobs now attack the player correctly while standing on soul sand.
Villagers now close doors that have been opened by a player or redstone. (MCPE-21946)
Fixed the "Toast" rabbit easter egg. (MCPE-44510)
Blocks

TNT no longer falls through blocks when ignited. (MCPE-41313)
Using pick block on lit redstone now gives the player the correct block. (MCPE-43450)
Frosted ice no longer causes lag when it is waiting to melt underground. (MCPE-39698)
Wood blocks now have directional placement. (MCPE-43367)
Granite, diorite, and andesite can no longer be smelted into smooth stone. (MCPE-45914)
Coarse dirt is no longer replaced with dirt when a tree is grown on top. (MCPE-26215)
Items

Buttons no longer appear rotated in the player hotbar. (MCPE-11365, MCPE-42584)
The durability bar for shields now update correctly when sustaining damage. (MCPE-44788)
Graphical

Pistons now have the correct textures when placed in any direction. (MCPE-38053)
Fixed an issue that could cause the home screen to show black corrupted textures after resuming the game on Android. (MCPE-39031)
Tweaked the position of the shield when held in the off-hand to fix a minor texture clipping issue.
Invisible bedrock no longer emits stone particles when fallen on.
Tweaked first-person hand attack animations.
Fixed hand animation when switching to empty hand from held item.
Fix an issue that caused block entities (such as beds) to not render after suspending and resuming the game.
Fixed some graphical errors when launching the game on Oculus Rift.
Fixed trident position issues when being held and thrown.
User interface

The background tint of the player coordinates is now consistent with the chat background. (MCPE-43791)
Tweaked the controller cursor position when auto crafting with a full inventory.
Players using touch screen can no longer break blocks when using touch-and-hold to use a fishing rod.
Commands

Execute detect command now uses local coordinates correctly. (MCPE-29942)
Modified CommandPosition so that an optional offset can be specified to move the rotation point in case of a local coordinate.
Fixed the ExecuteCommand detect option to correctly use an entity rather than a position so that it can use the entity orientation to calculate camera relative offsets.
Add-ons and scripting engine

Fixed MoLang scripting errors that were being logged for older content.
Endermen with modified behavior can now be shot and damaged with projectiles.
Entities crossing chunk boundaries can no longer get corrupted due to the move.
Fixed humanoid eating animation.
Fix issue of the mini bows rendering on all mobs other than players in scripting packs.
The "has_equipment" filter work correctly with damageable items.
Loading packs with lots of custom items now works correctly.
Creating a new End gateway portal in the "Abstraction Cubes" Marketplace map now works correctly.
Particle UVs no longer include lines of textures next to the selected UV.
Custom entities using the "nearest_attackable_target" now re-evaluate current target validity.


== beta 1.13.0.2 ==
Beta 1.13.0.2 is the second beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on July 10, 2019, which adds a new accessibility option and fixes bugs.


=== Additions ===


==== General ====
Add-ons

Added the ability to add new blocks and items using add-ons, instead of replacing already existing blocks.[verify for Bedrock Edition]
Accessibility

Added an option to disable the chat prompt after entering a world.


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that could occur while downloading multiple marketplace items at the same time on some iOS devices.
Fixed a crash that could occur when villagers tried to pathfind.
Fixed a crash that could occur when exiting the game after a multiplayer session.
Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to join a server.
Fixed a crash that could occur when using a phantom spawn egg on a mob spawner block.
Fixed a crash that could occur when loading in ocean monuments.
Performance

Fixed a drop in performance when flying with elytra in the End.
General

Corrected the arm movement on Oculus Rift immersive mode.
Fixed various text to speech reader issues.
Chat instructions no longer appear on-screen each time the player travels through a portal. (MCPE-45073)
Fixed the spacing of some of the menu buttons.
Fixed sneaking while sleeping bug.
Fixed the positioning of several held items.
Fixed the hand placement for various Marketplace skins when holding an item.
Structure block wireframe toggle now properly hides and shows the wireframe.
Fixed zombie pigman sword position.
Fixed the camera position when the player sleeps.
Fixed elytra position for Marketplace skins that don’t use the standard humanoid model.
Structure block load mode now has include entities and remove blocks options.
Players no longer lose items when moving stacks of items into a cartography table.
Fixed some text characters with accents showing up as spaces instead. (MCPE-47908)
Fixed the hand position when switching from item to bare hand in first person.
Adjusted the position of the player's arms while holding maps for certain Marketplace skins with short and long arms.
Fixed an issue where using the Education Edition toggle in a world would also change the menus and options. (MCPE-47952)
Gameplay

Fixed issues related to unloaded chunks that could appear in Realms and local worlds.  (REALMS-1553)
Fixed an issue where the player could get stuck in the loading screen when trying to join a world or use a nether portal. (MCPE-44816)
Leaves collected with silk touch now stack correctly with other leaves of the same type. (MCPE-32347)
Parrots now sit correctly on a player's shoulder when passing by.
Jukeboxes now stop playing music after being broken.
The wither's health bar no longer disappears during the fight if the player moves away. (MCPE-40881)
Fixed the default recipe for beds.
Joining a Realm through the 'joinable friends' list now loads the Realms UI rather than the normal multiplayer UI. (MCPE-47731)
Eating when using a nether portal no longer causes the player to teleport to a random location. (MCPE-39147)
Mobs

Foxes no longer run away from players that are sneaking.
Foxes no longer run away instead of being tempted.
Foxes now move at the same speed in Bedrock and Java.
Added back the blue effect from charged creepers to wither shields.
Foxes are no longer tempted by the player holding food.
Breeding two red foxes in a snowy biome now makes a red Fox baby.
Fixed fox nap goal cooldown.
Foxes no longer drown themselves while trying to catch and eat fish.
Villagers can now reach their job sites correctly. (MCPE-47884)
Trusted foxes now correctly lose aggro after getting revenge.
Blocks

Horizontal wood blocks now drop the correct version of block.
TNT can now be crafted from red sand as well as normal sand.
User interface

Fixed duplicated "Sign In" messages that were overlapping.
Removed duplicated download progress bar.
Add-ons and scripting engine

Blocks no longer stutter while falling when a script uses getBlocks.
Scripting: Ticking areas now have a property showing whether they are fully loaded or not.
Custom rideable entities now show the correct action hint when added.


== beta 1.13.0.4 ==
Beta 1.13.0.4 is the third beta version released for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, which fixes bugs and adds light blocks.


=== Additions ===


==== Blocks ====
Light blocks

Supports auxiliary data from 0 to 15 for light level.
Are available only through /give, /fill, and /setblock.
End rods with data values 6 and 7 updated to this version will display item data identical to the block item form of the light block; however, they retain their identifier (end_rod). If updated again to the current version of Bedrock Edition, they will convert to light blocks.
A secret second form of the light block is added. It has the numerical ID -215 and the namespaced ID item.light_block. It also uses the placeholder texture and was removed in beta 1.13.0.13.


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that happened when quick moving a structure void block. (MCPE-47903)
Fixed a crash that could occur when blocking projectiles with a shield. (MCPE-48070)
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when approaching world spawn. (MCPE-46686)
Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox when changing internet connection.
Performance

Improved performance and stability when playing on split-screen on Xbox.
General

Fixed the minecart rider rotation not being updated correctly on some packs.
Fixed the third-person camera view shaking issue. (MCPE-48987)
Adjusted the player's sneak animation position. (MCPE-47883)
Players can now join a world correctly after accepting an invite.
Nether portals now connect properly after being cloned.
Fixed the animation of nausea (including using nether portals). (MCPE-47960)
Added the mirror back to the left arm in humanoid geometry. (MCPE-47944)
Split-screen players can now only join if they have an adequate controller available.
The correct Marketplace inventory items are now shown when switching users.
Fixed broken rotations in player animation for attacking.
Players now face the specified direction when added to teleport commands.
Fixed issue of damaged elytra texture never getting used. (MCPE-47758)
/clear now works correctly with damageable items.
Global resource packs in Settings now update to the new chosen language.
The throwing animation now plays when charging a trident with Riptide.
Corrected the player's sprint/swim state when exiting water.
Fixed an issue with making purchases on Oculus Rift.
Fixed a controller issue when docking the Nintendo Switch.
Left and right brackets on the world/friend/server tabs now function correctly with full keyboard controls toggled on.
The text to speech narrator now works correctly with punctuation in text boxes.
Fixed an issue with in-game patch notes not always showing up correctly.
Fixed an issue with some damageable items (such as armor, tools) not being suggested in the recipe book.
Removed the “Create Realm” button from beta versions of the game.
Gameplay

Fixed an issue that was sometimes causing mobs to despawn randomly. (MCPE-47922)
Players no longer fall through opening shulker boxes and pistons. (MCPE-47882)
Items that have been smelted can now be crafted and stacked correctly. (MCPE-47907, MCPE-48421, MCPE-47684)
Buttons are now craftable from the recipe book again. (MCPE-48584)
Mobs

Adult villagers can now get into beds with low ceilings.
Creepers no longer lose aggro when the line of sight is broken briefly.
Removed the fox “moveToVillage” behavior to match Java Edition.
Mobs can now enter minecarts and boats again. (MCPE-48596)
Dolphins now jump properly again.
Zombies no longer become stuck on doors.
The parrot dancing animation is now at the correct speed. (MCPE-48356)
Parrots can now fly correctly again. (MCPE-47954)
Armor stands and players can again wear helmets with secondary layers.
Items no longer appear as mobs when held by armor stands. (MCPE-48629)
Arrows now render correctly when held by armor stands.
Dolphins now follow players in boats again.
Graphical

Fixed cloud shading. (MCPE-47814)
Fixed an issue with water not rendering correctly on some servers. (MCPE-46813)
Fixed the flame height issue when player in on fire. (MCPE-48175)
Multiple blocks no longer change color to black when moved by pistons.
Using /fill and /clone commands with glass structures now render correctly.
User interface

Fixed the directional arrow controls when using the full keyboard gameplay setting. (MCPE-47853)
Removed the accessibility tab from the "Create World" screen.
Add-ons and scripting engine

Ducks can once again be hit by the player in the MINECON 2018 pack.
Fixed the positioning of particles that were only showing correctly when centered on screen.
Adding backward compatibility for old player animation flags.
Experimental UI is now registered as a trusted pack. (MCPE-47818)
Fixed the horse rein positioning and rotation in certain packs.
Fixed an issue with nested behavior pack definitions not running correctly.
Fixed an issue with minimum compatible versions of certain packs not working correctly.
The Timer component now works on vanilla projectiles.
minecraft:spell_effects no longer trigger a second timer.
Fixed an issue with the must_see_forget_duration component not working.
Fixed an entity collision issue that was affecting some marketplace maps.
Invisible end rods (variant 6) used in various Marketplace maps are now invisible again.


== beta 1.13.0.5 ==
Beta 1.13.0.5 is the fourth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on August 7–12, 2019, which fixes bugs.


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash on Xbox One that could sometimes occur when signing out of an Xbox Live account.
Fixed an issue that could sometimes result in the app not responding when loading on Android.
Fixed a crash that could occur when interacting with custom entities.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur after sleeping in a bed.
Applying a resource pack to a Realm no longer causes the game to freeze.
Performance

Optimized game loading on Android devices, which also fixes the game sometimes showing an “App Not Responding” message when trying to launch the game.
General

VR - When the player goes to sleep and wakes up in immersion mode, the HUD is now positioned correctly, and axe animations work again.
Tweaked the Marketplace layout to prevent overlapping information.
Controller mapping no longer shows incorrectly as "unassigned".
Gameplay

Armor, weapons, and tools are once again suggested in the recipe book.
Mobs once again drop equipment as loot. (MCPE-48891)
Fixed an issue with breaking blocks when boarding a boat or holding a bow or crossbow.
Mobs no longer drop fully repaired items as loot. (MCPE-45953)
End gateway portals no longer generate on the main obsidian platform in the End.
Arrows are no longer fired backwards when shooting at the ground.
Leaves on trees no longer get cut off on chunk boundaries during terrain generation.
Players can no longer push lit TNT entities.
Mobs

Dolphins now follow players in boats.
Fish and dolphins with 'FollowFlock' goal state no longer stop moving in the water. (MCPE-47868)
Fixed fishing float texture. (MCPE-49727)
Fixed elytra left wing flipped model issue. (MCPE-49589)
Graphical

Fixed the arm movement animation when switching between items in first person view. (MCPE-47939)
Fixed the player missing right arm issue in VR mode.
User interface

Resized the highlighted area in the create world menu, which was slightly too big.
Add-ons and script engine

Fixed player entity components (eg. minecraft:damage_sensor) that were not getting added.
Fixed dog fetching mechanic on Dogs Marketplace content.
Custom player armor now renders correctly in some Marketplace content worlds.


== beta 1.13.0.6 ==
Beta 1.13.0.6 is the fifth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on August 14–15, 2019, which fixes bugs.


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when previewing structure blocks with structure voids.
Fixed an issue that was preventing the game from loading in correctly on some Android devices. (MCPE-48313)
General

In-game beta patch notes now show correctly when launching the game after an update.
Setting the y-rotation when teleporting a player now sets it correctly to 0 degrees instead of -180 degrees.


== beta 1.13.0.9 ==
Beta 1.13.0.9 is the sixth beta version released for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, which adds brown mooshrooms, dead coral, suspicious stew, wither roses, and more.


=== Additions ===


==== Blocks ====
Dead coral

A dead variant of coral that is made when coral is placed on the surface or does not have water.
Can be placed on top of blocks.
Flowers

Added wither roses.
Can be crafted into black dye.
Inflict 1 second of the Wither effect to players and mobs around it, when in any difficulty besides Peaceful.
Are dropped or planted from any non-undead mob killed by the wither.
Note blocks

Added 11 new note block sounds:
Bone block = Xylophone
Block of gold = Bell
Clay = Flute
Packed ice = Chime
Wool = Guitar
Block of iron = Iron Xylophone
Soul sand = Cow Bell
Pumpkin = Didgeridoo
Block of emerald = Bit
Hay bale = Banjo
Glowstone = Pling


==== Items ====
Suspicious stew

Can be crafted with a red and brown mushroom, a bowl, and any flower.


==== Mobs ====
Brown mooshrooms

Spawn when a red mooshroom is struck by a lightning bolt.
Can be fed flowers then milked for a suspicious stew.


==== World generation ====
Villages

Added abandoned villages.
Re-added zombie villages but in use of the new village structures.


==== General ====
Credits

Added game credits.
These can be viewed after defeating the ender dragon, and also through a new button found in the Settings menu.
Patrols

Can now spawn in any biome except the Nether and mushroom fields.
Delay is now 10-11 minutes, instead of 5-6 minutes.
Now attack in swarms.
Raids

Added villager celebration for a successful raid defense.
Added illager celebration for an unsuccessful raid defense.
UI

Changed the sign in button size, reverting the size of Pocket Edition v0.16.0 Alpha.


=== Changes ===


==== Blocks ====
Grass paths

Can now be found in the Creative inventory.
Item frames

Can now be placed on the top and bottom of blocks.


==== Items ====
Turtle eggs

Now have 2D textures in the inventory.


==== Mobs ====
Fish

Now drop experience when killed.
Players

Are now 1.8 blocks tall. (MCPE-31710)
Squid

Can now spawn in rivers.
Villagers

Can now heal if they have bread in their inventory.


==== General ====
How to Play

Added a section for structure blocks.
Tweaked the "Host and Player Options" section. (MCPE-28976)
Updated the section about taming cats. (MCPE-43490)
Map-making and add-ons

New data-driven items:
Turtle lightning interactions are now data-driven.
Pufferfish puffed states are now data-driven.
Brewing stand potion recipes are now data-driven.
Changed Breathable, RideTick, and Transformation systems to use ViewedEntityContext.
Added precompiled header targeting for ScriptAPI.
Significantly increased the maximum spawnRadius distance.


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
The game no longer appears frozen after starting a world.
Fixed crash from mismatched components/definitions from legacy actor updating.
Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to brew certain potions.
Fixed a crash that could occur on low and mid-end Android devices.
Fixed crash from missing component definition.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur after a guest tries to join a game through an invite.
The game no longer crashes when a split-screen player picks up log blocks.
Fixed a crashing issue that affected certain worlds when approaching spawn. (MCPE-46686)
Fixed a crash that could occur after changing the file storage location.
Running commands from a minecart with command block no longer crashes the game.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when trying to double tap on an item in the beacon UI.
Fixed a crash that would occur when dispensing bone meal onto a one-high flower. (MCPE-50760)
Fixed a crash that was sometimes occurring on some Android and iOS devices with lower memory.
Performance

Improved world loading times.
Optimized terrain light calculation.
Optimized FPS during gameplay on Xbox One.
Optimized the time taken to load mobs into the world.
General

The "We are being attacked!" and "I've got a bad feeling about this" achievements can now be unlocked. (MCPE-45060)
Powered rails placed using /fill should now work correctly when powered by redstone.
Fixed a download loop after purchasing certain content packs.
Using /setblock on a piston base no longer leaves an invisible piston arm.
When the player deletes a global resource pack, it now removes itself from the active stack.
The info at the top of the global resource pack screen now fits correctly when using various language settings.
Cloned active mob spawners now have an animated mob when placed. (MCPE-23106)
Fixed the "Multiplayer Restricted Skin!" error message that would pop up when trying to join a world before the skin had loaded in. (MCPE-48494)
Fixed an issue that was causing many small and empty villages to be created when trying to expand an existing village.
Fixed an infinite loading screen when opening the skin picker.
Fixed a missing armor layer for the "Tiny Footprints" Marketplace pack.
Gameplay

Fire Aspect swords no longer set Creative players on fire. (MCPE-14036)
Players can now teleport on top of non-full or transparent blocks when eating a chorus fruit.
Endermen holding red sand no longer drop regular sand when killed. (MCPE-25926)
Fixed an issue that prevented the player from moving while sneaking on top of shulkers or boats. (MCPE-44644)
Boat paddling animation now matches Java Edition and resynchronizes when paddling stops.
Lightning now strikes less frequently. (MCPE-38768)
The LT controller button can now be used to quickly equip or replace armor.
Players are now able to use items like fishing rods while aiming at nearby mobs.
Lightning from channeling trident now affects more than a single mob in a small area.
The player no longer keeps on rowing when opening the inventory UI during boat rides. (MCPE-36522)
Arrows now destroy armor stands properly. (MCPE-47785)
Flowers no longer become invisible in flower pots. (MCPE-40806)
Sneaking on redstone ore no longer triggers glow.
Breaking an extended piston in Creative no longer drops an item. (MCPE-37492)
Drinking sound for milk and potions now plays correctly. (MCPE-38340)
Mobs now drop armor and tools correctly. (MCPE-48891)
Nether wart now has a chance to drop more items when broken with Fortune tools. (MCPE-31107)
Animal breeding cooldowns no longer reset after reloading the world.
Explosions other than TNT now deal damage in water.
Parrots can now be picked in Creative using pick block.
Dispensers now place boats correctly.
Anvils now take damage correctly after use.
Mobs can now enter into boats and minecarts correctly. (MCPE-48596)
Buttons are now craftable from the recipe book.
Fixed the player's swimming state when exiting water.
Area of effect clouds such as lingering potions now work correctly if the world is set to 'Always Day'. (MCPE-39595)
Water dispensed from a dispenser no longer breaks end portals and gateways.
The beacon block can now suffocate players and mobs like other opaque blocks (when being clipped into when using a minecart, for example).
The player respawn location now favors shallow water rather than deep water.
Multiple ender dragons no longer spawn in the End if the player dies or moves away. (MCPE-37590)
Hoppers now pick up items from above correctly. (MCPE-31393)
The "Renewable Energy" achievement now unlocks correctly. (MCPE-39661)
Pillagers now spawn around pillager outposts more frequently. (MCPE-43396)
Player movement speed is no longer slowed down after stepping onto a shulker box from certain blocks.
The "Where have you been?" achievement now unlocks correctly on Android.
Placing and breaking blocks from within a boat now works correctly.
Mobs no longer drop fully repaired items. (MCPE-45953)
End gateway portals can no longer generate on the main obsidian platform in the End.
The locator map marker now points in the correct direction when riding a boat. (MCPE-50512)
Falling snow layers no longer break blocks in redstone contraptions. (MCPE-49773)
Players now receive stored XP from furnaces correctly. (MCPE-47324)
Maps are now drawn more quickly when exploring, meaning the "Map Room" achievement now unlocks more consistently. (MCPE-27720)
Mobs

Entity hit and collision boxes no longer exist during mob death animations. (MCPE-9999)
Wither skeletons are no longer affected by the Wither effect. (MCPE-46317)
Foxes now sleep and find cover during thunderstorms.
Mobs and entities are no longer slowed when walking one block above ice.
Baby zombies are now able to ride zombie pigmen. (MCPE-20163)
The wither no longer runs away from the player after being spawned.
Fixed the held sword position for vex mobs.
The phantom wing flapping animation is faster now. (MCPE-42935)
Endermen are correctly affected by invisibility effect when applied. (MCPE-44492)
Parrots can now fly over fences and walls.
Drowned on land now attack based on brightness levels rather than the time of day.
Mobs standing on slabs are no longer immune to sunlight damage after reloading the world. (MCPE-32822)
Witches no longer spawn in 1.8 high gaps. (MCPE-45935)
Cured zombie villagers now keep their trade level.
Zombies no longer become stuck on doors when pathfinding.
The parrot dancing animation is the correct speed now. (MCPE-48356)
Jockeys no longer get stuck trying to move to unreachable mounts.
Blocks

Barrier blocks no longer stop grass growth.
Farmland blocks now prevent grass growing underneath.
Items

Leaves collected with silk touch now stack correctly. (MCPE-32347)
Trapdoor items now have the correct inventory icon textures. (MCPE-44214)
Six-sided wood block variants can now be smelted or used as furnace fuel.
Items dropped from breaking blocks underwater now show bubbles.
Damaged elytra now have their own texture.
Fixed an issue that prevented certain items not being suggested in the recipe book correctly.
Items cooked on the campfire now stack together correctly. (MCPE-47684)
Graphical

The paper doll model now properly reloads animations when the app suspends and resumes.
The player model is now visible again while sleeping on a bed.
Improved the texture for the stonecutter with non-fancy graphics. (MCPE-42487)
Fixed the shield's blocking animation in third person view.
Iron bars no longer lose some of their textures when surrounded by other bars. (MCPE-47324)
Fixed the smooth player sneaking animation. (MCPE-49586)
The screen now fades to black when sleeping in a bed.
Leads rendered in the structure block UI no longer stretch really far away.
Added correct hue to the ender dragon's death animation.
User interface

Fixed incorrect tooltip text showing for various potions.
Keyboard inputs now work correctly when the game loads out of window focus.
Fixed HUD positioning after sleeping on VR immersive mode.
Fixed the "Open Chat" message for touch screen devices.
Flight controls no longer show when sleeping in a bed in creative. (MCPE-44928)
Commands

Pistons with data values 6 and 7 can no longer be placed using slash commands. (MCPE-21558)
Using the /clear @p item now clears correctly auxiliary values.
Players can no longer use the /spawnpoint command in the Nether dimension.
Using the /replaceitem command now works correctly with barrels. (MCPE-48184)
The /clear command now works correctly with damageable items.
Running the "/clear" command message now shows correct amount of items removed. (MCPE-34750)
Carpet is now removed correctly when using the "/clear" command.
Add-ons and script engine

Fixed the death override event firing twice when leaving a world from the death screen.
Fixed `minecraft:scale` component failing to scale certain Actor models.
Running the "tick_world" component now removes ticking areas correctly and consistently.
Fixed double damage events being sent when mobs are hurt by non-magic.
Behavior pack animations now run correctly when set.
The timer component now works on projectiles.
"minecraft:spell_effects" no longer trigger a second time incorrectly.
Fixed player entity components that were not getting added.
Added stone slab aliases to allow backward compatibility on Marketplace maps.


== beta 1.13.0.13 ==
Beta 1.13.0.13 is the seventh beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on September 12, 2019, which fixes bugs.


=== Additions ===


==== General ====
Screen size

Added a new prompt to suggest that a player adjusts the screen safe zone, if necessary.
RenderDragon

Xbox One now uses the new rendering engine RenderDragon.


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
The game no longer crashes while typing out the execute command.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when a player leaves a multiplayer game.
Fixed a crash that could occur if a player tried to open chat just as they were leaving a multiplayer game.
Light blocks with invalid auxiliary values no longer cause the game to crash. (MCPE-51191)
Performance

Improved performance with animation optimizations.
Devices with lower available memory now support the new note block sounds.
Improved chunk loading performance when flying.
General

Fixed an issue where the main menu UI would not load in for some beta players on Xbox One. (MCPE-50344)
Buried treasure chests can no longer spawn inside village structures.
Fixed an issue that could cause some worlds to become corrupted during gameplay. (MCPE-50496)
Mobs

Farmers now correctly harvest crops when their inventory is not full. (MCPE-47166)
Turtles and tropical fish no longer drift downwards and swim at the bottom of the sea.
Villagers now hide more consistently during a raid.
The player's left leg no longer slightly bob when is idle or looking around.
User interface

Fixed the spacing between "Feedback" and "Save & Quit" buttons in the pause menu.
Graphical

Fixed the position of parrots sitting on the player's shoulder.
Commands

Using the command `@s[type=...]` now works correctly. (MCPE-49766)
Obfuscated text now works with the smooth font chat setting.
Add-ons and script engine

Using "lock_rider_rotation" now works correctly on players.
Using "yaw_speed" calculation now works correctly.
Custom entities now get proper death messages.


== beta 1.13.0.15 ==
Beta 1.13.0.15 is the eighth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on September 19, 2019, which adds a character creator and fixes bugs.


=== Additions ===


==== General ====
Accessibility

Added a new option in the Accessibility settings that allows users to not auto-enable Text-To-Speech when their platform has it enabled. (MCPE-43306)
Character creator

Allows the player to personalize their avatar in many ways, including body size and shape, limb replacement and tweaking of eyes, mouth, hair styles and colors, facial hair, and skin tones.
More than 100 items are available for free. There is also a range of custom accessories available for purchase.
Traditional custom skins can still be imported as before on Windows 10 and mobile.


=== Changes ===


==== General ====
Menu screen

Replaced the hanger button with a "Profile" button.
Moved the "Achievements" button to the "Profile" screen.


==== Blocks ====
Dispensers

Can no longer be crafted using damaged bows.


==== Mobs ====
Villagers

Farmers now sell suspicious stew. (MCPE-51215)


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that would occur after eating or drinking a single item. (MCPE-51978)
Fixed a crash related to the EvocationFang animation.
Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to apply a texture pack with a custom sized cube map.
Fixed a crash that could occur when being attacked by an elder guardian. (MCPE-52026)
Fixed a crash that could occur when losing an internet connection whilst downloading a Marketplace pack.
Mob spawners and cave spiders no longer show error logs and crash the game. (MCPE-52008, MCPE-52273, MCPE-52282)
Performance

Made further optimization improvements by removing unused vanilla textures.
General

Fixed an issue that was preventing custom skins from being applied. (MCPE-52102)
Jillager now changes her profession correctly in the "Traveling Trader" Marketplace map.
Free skins now roam between devices correctly again.
Gameplay

Fixed an issue with crafting various tools that were missing in the recipe book.
Eating chorus fruit now teleports the player correctly again.
Mobs

Fixed various mob head animations so they are facing the correct direction when sitting, sleeping or eating. (MCPE-52251, MCPE-51216)
Pillagers riding ravagers now sit correctly while celebrating a raid victory. (MCPE-51266)
Tweaked drowned despawning rules, to help prevent too many being present in the world. (MCPE-34032)
Drowned now despawn if the following conditions are met: the player is at least 54 blocks away, the drowned has not performed any actions in at least 30 seconds, and it is day time.
Fixed panda animation and leash positioning.
Blocks

Barrier blocks once again transmit redstone correctly. (MCPE-51816)
Leaves destroyed by explosions no longer leave an invisible block behind.
Items

Broken elytra now have the correct texture again. (MCPE-47758)
Elytra once again loses durability through use.
Chorus fruit is now back in the correct inventory tab. (MCPE-49889)
Semi-transparent block items are no longer fully opaque. (MCPE-51991)
User interface

Book items show their descriptions again correctly when trading with a librarian villager. (MCPE-51311)
Fixed a bug that was preventing the chat history from being scrolled through.
Graphical

Fixed the shading direction for clouds. (MCPE-47814)
The camera transition between standing and swimming is now smooth again.
Fixed an issue that could cause the UI to flicker when playing in a split-screen multiplayer game.
Leads attached to mobs no longer appear to be floating in the air. (MCPE-51981)
Commands

Cauldrons now have the correct 'fill_level' data when placed with the '/setblock' command.
Add-ons and script engine

The ghast "look at player" behavior is no longer hardcoded.
Fixed an issue that meant entities with "minecraft:is_stackable" tag could push each other into and through full blocks.
Custom projectile entities can now have their physics defined in a pack, without having to override vanilla behaviors.


== beta 1.13.0.16 ==
Beta 1.13.0.16 is the ninth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on September 26, 2019, which fixes bugs.


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed a crash that occurred after attacking a pufferfish.
Fixed a crash that occurred when using the character creator.
Performance

Improved performance when opening the inventory.
Several performance improvements regarding block rendering.
General

Partially fixed an issue that caused global resources not to be applied after relaunching the game.
Equipped skins are once again retained after closing and relaunching the application.
Gameplay

Fixed an issue with block updates on a waterlogged block triggering a redstone update in the same chunk.
Trying to ride a mob or mount no longer uses the item that is currently equipped. (MCPE-51196)
Mobs

End crystals are once again visible in the world. (MCPE-52261)
Items in foxes' mouths no longer appear invisible. (MCPE-51993)
Decreased the fox's jump attack from 11 blocks to 5 blocks to match Java Edition.
Fixed an issue that reverted horses to their old models and textures.
Items

Items held in hand once again have the correct offset in third-person view.
Character creator

Several fixes and improvements to navigating the character creator when using a controller.
Fixed body features becoming misaligned in the character creator.
Fixed the "Delete Character" screen so it no longer has a transparent background.
Commands

The '/particle' command once again functions properly.
Fixed an error message that occurred when using the '/help' command.
Add-ons and script engine

The boss health bar once again appears when creating a custom wither using add-ons.


== beta 1.13.0.17 ==
Beta 1.13.0.17 is the tenth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on September 26, 2019, which addresses some performance issues on Xbox One.


=== Fixes ===
Fixed some performance issues on Xbox One.


== beta 1.13.0.18 ==
Beta 1.13.0.18 is the eleventh and final beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on October 2, 2019, which fixes bugs.


=== Fixes ===
Crashes

Fixed a crash that occurred when accepting the storage permission on Android.
Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that could occur when scrolling through languages in the Settings. (MCPE-52009)
Fixed a crash that could occur when using the character creator on Android. (MCPE-52474)
General

The "Beam Me Up" achievement can once again be unlocked.
Gameplay

Fixed players falling from the sky after riding an entity in Creative mode. (MCPE-52957)
Fixed players spawning in unexpected locations after roaming a world save to a different Xbox One.
Mobs

Zombies once again spawn in caves. (MCPE-52743)
Items

Carpets once again appear on the llama's inventory screen.
Crossbows no longer fire immediately after loading. (MCPE-52179)
Fixed the ability to discard damaged tools from the Creative inventory. (MCPE-52465)
Compasses and clocks once again animate on the hotbar. (MCPE-52901)
Armor can once again be equipped directly from the Creative inventory on touch screens. (MCPE-52413)
Frost Walker boots once again freeze water.
Graphical

The breaking animation once again appears on chests.
Fixed the player's head looking wrongly when sneaking. (MCPE-51181)
Fixed the player's arms not animating when swimming. (MCPE-49749)
Mob heads once again fit properly on players.
Fixed the crafting table icon not showing its grid on top in certain GUI scales.
Fixed several missing and broken textures in the inventory. (MCPE-52442)
Fixed some skins appearing with a white cape. (MCPE-52005)
Fixed armor not respecting extra layers on skins.
Fixed destroyed blocks leaving shadows.
User interface

Various fixes and loading time improvements to the character creator interface.
External servers once again appear on the Servers screen.
Fixed the inventory screens of some blocks not appearing on the first attempt after the block's state has changed, like hoppers and dispensers.
The Profile screen can now be accessed when playing split-screen.
The "Read More" button once again appears next to packs on the Global Resource menu.
Commands

The '/summon' command once again properly names entities, if defined.
Add-ons and script engine

Fixed spawn eggs not appearing in the Creative inventory for custom mobs.
Item held by scaled mobs are once again sized appropriately.
Using 'format_version' 1.2.0 no longer breaks the 'on_damage' component.
Triggering custom animations for entities is once again functional.
Using the 'transformation' component on 'xp_orb' once again removes the source entity.
The 'spawn_entity' component is now executed when an entity is being ridden.
Fixed the ender dragon not appearing correctly in some add-on packs.
Errors are once again listed on the pack manifest validation screen.


== beta 1.13.0.3 ==
Beta 1.13.0.3 is an unreleased beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0 developed in July 10 ~ 26, 2019. This beta exists in Google Play store's database, and can be obtained from there via specific methods.


== Notes and references ==


== Navigation ==