This is a list of Bedrock Edition exclusive features, compared to Java Edition. Some of these exclusive features may be eventually added to Java Edition to bring parity.
Features marked in italics are fully exclusive to Bedrock Edition (except Minecraft Launcher), other features have exclusive behavior listed below.


== General ==
Platforms

Bedrock Edition is supported on Windows, Xbox, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation, Android, ChromeOS, iOS, and Fire. See Bedrock Edition for more information.
The game is purchased, downloaded, updated, and managed from the platform's app store in addition to the Minecraft Launcher and the Xbox app on Windows.
Cross-platform multiplayer between all supported platforms.
Bedrock Dedicated Server is supported on Windows and Linux.
The Windows version of Bedrock Edition runs on the latest GDK (Game Development Kit) version, which allows signing in and downloading updates during startup. User data is also separately stored for each signed-in player, and synced to the Xbox cloud.
On Windows and mobile versions, add-ons, skin packs, worlds, and world templates can be zipped into dedicated file extensions that can be automatically imported into the game.
Minecraft Preview

A separate app for testing beta features.
Has some exclusive features compared to Bedrock Edition, such as debug information and toggleable Ore UI menu screens.
Bedrock Editor

An in-game tool to edit world projects.
Has various creator tools to efficiently create large world projects, such as for content creators.
Can be modified with scripting.
Has the exclusive /project command, map marker entities, and void world type.
Has an interface to create custom Vibrant Visuals resource packs.
Can export worlds as project, world, or world template files.
Minecraft Launcher

Has tabs for Creator Tools, FAQ, and Marketplace Pass in the Bedrock Edition section.
Bedrock Edition does not require the Minecraft Launcher to be launched, but can also be opened with a desktop shortcut on Windows, or like regular applications on other devices.
Support launch protocol for Quick Play, opening the Bedrock Editor, and more.
Trial mode

Realms and external servers can be joined through desktop shortcuts.
Custom skins can be imported.
Has exclusive splashes.
Add-ons

Official modding API.
Official documentation is available at Microsoft Learn.
Used to change the way things look in-game.
Behavior packs are used to change behavior, loot, equipment, and spawn rule of entities, instead of data packs in Java Edition.
Can be used to replace entities, items, blocks, recipes, biomes, or add new ones.
Scripting can be used for further customization, such as adding new commands.
World templates can be used to re-create a world with imported settings, world data, and add-ons.
Bedrock Edition supports backwards-compatibility, making it possible to "lock" world templates in older versions.
Some creator options are available for debugging when creating add-ons.
Packs can have a settings menu to switch between sub-packs or adjust custom options.
Resource packs

Entities can be remodeled.
Can be used to customize animations and GUIs.
Resource packs use JSON files called biomes_client for applying biome tints depending on biome, rather than confusing color maps like with foliage.
Said JSON file can also be used to change and apply other effects, such as fog.
Marketplace
Platform where players can purchase content from Mojang Studios and the Minecraft Partner Program.
Includes skin packs, worlds, texture packs, mash-up packs, and add-ons.
Minecoins (or Tokens on PlayStation) are used as currency, which can be purchased for real money.
Marketplace Pass, a monthly subscription allowing access to selected and changing Marketplace content.
Dressing Room
Interface where players can view and select skins, even while in-game.
Allows customization of skins with cosmetic items obtained in-game and from the Marketplace.
Allows equipment of emotes and capes.
Skins

Have extra 3D pixels on the skin model.
Resolution supports up to 128×128 pixels.
Skins can be customized into four different sizes.
Skin packs are available from the Marketplace or can be created manually.
Default and Character Creator skins blink occasionally.
Emotes

Animations of players.
Players can execute emotes in-game by selecting B.
Emotes show in the chat, which can be toggled.
Some emotes have rare chat messages, or unique text formatting.
Multiplayer

LAN worlds show on the Play screen alongside local worlds.
Bedrock Edition uses the Xbox social system in-game, synchronizing friend lists and profile data.
Any player can be searched in-game and added as a friend. Friends can be viewed and managed in the social drawer.
Players can join worlds from in-game friends from the worlds list or the social drawer. This can be disabled in the game settings, or extended to friends of friends.
Players can always invite friends to their world or server, sending a device notification.
Parties​[upcoming]

A feature in the social drawer where friends can be invited to a group of online players, or join one depending on the settings.
Parties have a leader, and if the leader joins a world or server, the entire party moves to that world.
Each party has a chat, which allows members to send and view messages regardless of whether they are in the same game.
Servers

Bedrock Dedicated Server, official server software for Bedrock Edition.
Has 9 featured servers available in the server list.
In-game live events are hosted on servers in Bedrock Edition and accessible from the main menu.
Can be configured to drop chat messages and not send them to any client, or completely disable the chat UI.
Realms

Has two subscriptions: Core for two players online at once, and Plus for 10 players online at once.
Realms Plus also includes the Marketplace Pass.
Allows access to the Realms Celebration Map.
Allows members to be invited with the Xbox friends system and invite links.
Realms Stories, a social hub for Realm members allowing to share screenshots, comment, view members and activity.
Includes Realm Events, auto-generated stories when one or more players achieved a goal on the Realm, such as defeating the ender dragon.
Allows add-ons to be enabled.
Realms subscriptions include a separate Realm for Minecraft Preview.
Worlds can be copied at any time on a Realm to be stored as a save in addition to backups, with a maximum storage of 10GB for Plus and 5GB for Core.
Graphical

Bedrock Edition uses different types of anti-aliasing, configurable in the settings.
Burning mobs emit large particles with fire's animation.
Sky color is affected by vertical position; it darkens at lower altitudes and turns purple at higher altitudes.
At sunset and sunrise, clouds and ambient lighting turn red.
The sun and the moon disappear after a period of time after sunset and sunrise respectively.
When the camera is looking at the sun, the environment darkens.
Fancy bubbles are affected by their own settings rather than the graphics mode.
Textures in the far distance are rendered opaque, and some textures do not render at all to save on GPU load.
Fog

All settings related to fog can be customized per biome using resource packs (see Fog definition).
Render distance fog is thicker and smoother.
Rendering

The render distance with Fancy or Simple graphics can be changed between 5-96 chunks, depending on the device. The device's limit can be bypassed by adjusting it in options.txt.
Vibrant Visuals and Ray Tracing graphics modes each use a separate render distance option. The render distance with Vibrant Visuals can be increased to 128 chunks in options.txt.
RenderDragon

Bedrock Edition's graphics engine.
Allows deferred rendering and ray tracing.
Ray tracing
Graphics upgrade for Windows devices that meet the minimum hardware requirements and can be enabled and customized using resource packs.
Allows content creators to use realistic-looking lighting in their world with physically based rendering, directional lighting, and visual effects.
Vibrant Visuals

Deferred graphics mode using physically based rendering.
Exclusive features include directional lighting, pixel-aligned shadows, environmental and biome-dependent effects, and various water effects.
Includes End flashes and an exclusive panorama.
Point lighting and colored lighting is available behind an experiment in Minecraft Preview.
Can be customized using resource packs and in the Editor.
Particles

Has several exclusive particles:
breaking_item_terrain
cauldron_explosion_emitter
cauldron_spell_emitter
conduit_particle
Similar to the nautilus particle in Java Edition but with different shapes and colors. Separate particle variants exist for the conduit animation and attack animation.
falling_border_dust_particle
Some particles with the same textures but different usage have multiple IDs
Explosion particles are more pixelated.
Scraping and waxing copper particles appear to fade in instead of instantly appearing.
Biome particles are dependent of the player's position rather than the block position of particles, similar to weather particles.
User interface

Two UIs for in-game interfaces: Pocket and Classic.
Is data-driven and can be customized by resource packs.
GUIs have a close button on the top-right, and most settings menus have a Reset to Default button.
Menu screens use JSON UI or Ore UI.
Ore UI has unique sound effects, animations, textures, and in-game descriptions.
A large version of Ore UI menu screens can be toggled in the settings.
Opening/closing GUIs and menu screens has an animation, toggleable in the settings.
Quick moving items in the GUI has an animation.
Stacked items in the inventory can be split by holding on the item.
Selecting an item in any interface enlargens it.
Menu screens have generally more different types of objects, rather than only buttons.
Game load after the Mojang Studios splash screen is a Minecraft splash screen and shows loading percentage.
Animated loading icon exists for all interfaces that are not instant.
Many more toasts exist for menu notifications.
Some toasts can be opened to show error details.
Menu buttons and inventory slots turn green upon hover.
Some text uses the Noto Sans font for better readability, or Minecraft Ten for styling.
Certain private area emojis are implemented as icons in-game for text inputs, mainly for controls, but also others such as the hunger or armor icons.
Heads-up display

Shows a paper doll in the top-left when the player is sneaking or sprinting, which can be toggled from the settings and by pressing F8.
Shows coordinates and days played, toggleable in the game settings.
Text backgrounds from hotbar tooltips and /title command are more rounded and centered, slightly opaque by default and adjustable separately from chat background.
Background opacity of the action bar can be adjusted.
Background opacity of closed captions can be adjusted with "Chat Background Opacity".
The hotbar shows enchantments and shulker box contents in item tooltips.
Hand in first person is positioned lower and turns red when taking damage.
When not moving, the hand/held item sways up and down to imitate breathing in first person.
Switching to the same item in a different hotbar slot plays the item switching animation.
The player's arm is animated when charging a crossbow in first person.
Staying idle for 15 minutes lowers the brightness and shows an inactive toast.
Screen effects

Suffocating in a block shows a cube model of that block around the player's head, rather than only one side of the block's texture across the entire screen.
The same is applied when stepping into a Nether portal and being on fire, the latter is locked around the point of view.
All screen effects except the vignette are visible with the HUD hidden.
The elder guardian in the Mining Fatigue effect is animated and shortly waits in the middle of the screen.
Tutorial hints

Has much more different tutorial hints than Java Edition.
Animated tutorial hints show a tiny Alex performing an action, sometimes clarified with a control which changes depending on the control mode.
Certain tutorial hints appear on different positions with different shapes on the screen, for example, the hotbar hint appears right above the hotbar slot it is pointing to.
Tutorial hints can be toggled and reset from the settings.
Creative inventory
There are 40 items exclusive to the Bedrock Edition Creative inventory, as follows:
Decay effect Tipped Arrow, Potion, Splash Potion, and Lingering Potion
Long Mundane Potion, Splash Long Mundane Potion, and Lingering Long Mundane Potion
Empty Locator Map
Firework Star, all colors
Firework Rockets, all colors and one additional preset
Allows to show the Survival inventory standalone, alongside the Creative inventory, or only the Creative inventory.
Survival inventory in Creative has a 2×2 crafting grid.
Several items are grouped together.
Controllers have a button to clear the hotbar.
Left-clicking an item takes a full stack rather than one item; shift-clicking sends the entire stack to the inventory.
Recipe book
Uses the same layout and tabs as the Creative inventory.
The craftable amount of an item is shown up to 99 and shift-clicking instantly crafts the maximum amount possible.
"Craftable" toggle in the recipe book shows all recipes the player has at least one ingredient of.
Recipe unlocking can be disabled in the game settings as a game rule.
Autosave
The autosave indicator has an animated icon.
Autosaving happens more often.
Splitscreen
A feature exclusive to console versions of the game that allows up to four players to play on one device.
Players can enter splitscreen mode by connecting another controller. A player needs to select a user profile and the world must have enabled multiplayer.
Chat
Players can be mentioned with @.
Allows quick execution of some commands with buttons.
Can show player and facing coordinates with copy interface.
Chat settings can be changed from the chat menu itself.
Allows custom font and mention color.
Allows Noto Sans for chat messages.
The chat can filter certain messages which can be toggled in the settings.
The chat can also be opened by pressing ↵ Enter as a second customizable keybind.
On keyboard & mouse and controller controls, a message informs how to open the chat and execute emotes every time the world gets loaded.
In the United Kingdom, chat is not disabled in multiplayer if all players are Xbox friends.
Most action bar messages are shown in the chat.
Shows a tooltip if there are new messages below.
Formatting codes
Text can be styled with § in any in-game text input.
Many more color codes exist for in-game materials.
How to Play
A tutorial guide in the settings and accessible from several interfaces with "?" buttons.
Includes an encyclopedia with more detailed information about various game aspects.
Controls

Has three control modes: Keyboard & Mouse, Controller, and Touch.
Allows full keyboard gameplay to map mouse controls on the keyboard.
Keybind for Identify, which shows the name of facing block or entity above the hotbar.
Touch controls have three control modes, with further customization options.
Touch buttons can be changed in position, opacity, and scale.
Touch control mode can vibrate the device when breaking blocks or splitting items.
Controller control mode shows controller hints on the HUD, user interfaces, and menu screens.
Controllers have a cursor in user interfaces.
Settings

Signed out players can change their name in the options.
"Dinnerbone" or "Grumm" turns the player model upside down.
This supports names up to 32 characters long.
Account settings have links to Xbox account management and privacy settings.
Players on non-Windows devices can sign out in-game, and sign in with Microsoft Remote Connect.
Subscriptions tab shows available and active subscriptions as well as managing options.
Storage tab allows to clear different types of cache and quickly delete screenshots, several packs, and worlds.
File storage location can be toggled between Application and External on Android devices.
Has some exclusive options:
Allow mobile data for online play
Websockets Enabled
Require Encrypted Websockets
Auto Update Unlocked Packs
Lower Framerate When Controller Is Disconnected
Improved Input Response
Frame Pacing
Allow In-Game Graphics Mode Switching
Beautiful Skies
Camera Perspective
Spyglass Damping
Change Screen Safe Area
Select World and server list
Is called "Play" screen and shows all worlds, Realms, and servers in different tabs.
Has an option to automatically import world files and world templates on Windows.
Worlds tab has a list of Marketplace and imported world templates which can be used to create a world.
Can be organized in gallery style.
Hardcore worlds show the amount of in-game days played on the Hardcore tag, if the game rule is enabled.
Create New World
Shows a thumbnail image for the world, which changes when a different world type or world template is used.
Starting map — an option that lets the player spawn with an empty locator map.
Various game rules are listed as settings instead of a separate screen.
Allows to upload the world to a Realm.
Seed templates
An interface in the Create New World screen to select a world seed from different presets, with interesting terrain or structures near the world spawn.
Game settings
Allows almost all options and game rules from the Create New World screen to be changed.
Allows resource packs and behavior packs to be changed.
Allows experiments to be enbled.
Allows exporting worlds on Windows devices.
Shows world seed with a button to copy the seed.
Allows a locally stored screenshot to be set as the world thumbnail.
Experiments

Has exclusive experiments for add-on creators.
Named updates receive an experimental toggle in a minor update before the release, containing some of the update's features.
Experiments can be enabled for existing worlds.
Main menu

Shows a player miniature and the player's gamertag.
Animated Marketplace button.
After opening the game for the first time after installation, the player is welcomed with quick world creation, allowing to create a Survival or Creative world with default settings through a number of steps.
The world seed is predefined from specific starter seeds, notable for unique or outstanding world generation.
Game menu
Shows a list of in-game players and friends, with the options to open their profiles and change their player permissions.
Shows a player miniature and the player's gamertag.
Game pause feature in singleplayer can be toggled in the settings.
Has buttons to take a screenshot, open Realms Stories, open the Dressing Room, view achievements, and open the Marketplace.
Profile
Every signed in player has an in-game profile screen.
The player's profile image is the face of their skin.
The profile screen is used to track achievements, view screenshots, view some player statistics, and view Xbox friends.
The profile is connected to the Xbox profile where some settings can be managed.
Players can open a profile from other players to compare statistics, and view up to 5 showcased screenshots, from which one featured.
Inbox

All Realms invites, Marketplace offers, and announcements can be found in the in-game inbox, accessible from the main menu.
Certain announcements and offers also appear as pop-ups upon launching the game or opening the Marketplace.
Some settings related to notifications and invites can be changed in the inbox.
Background

Teleporting to the End displays an end stone background with loading screen box.
Teleporting to the Nether displays a netherrack background.
The End Poem and teleporting to the Overworld has a dirt background.
Unique Nether portal and dirt backgrounds shown on error screens.
Loading world screen
Displays loading progress with an experience bar.
Displays loading tips.
The set of loading tips used depends on the player's game progress. Exclusive loading tips are shown when loading modified worlds, when joining Realms, in Creative mode, joining Realms, and in Preview.
Exclusive loading screens are used for the Marketplace and Realms.
Menu music continues in the loading screen and fades out after spawning in a world.
Errors on world load are named and provide links and information.
Sound

Exclusive sounds are listed on sounds.json.
Ambient sound effects can play at different pitches.
Stereo footstep sounds.
"UI" slider is called "Sound" and controls miscellaneous sounds and invalid sound categories.


== Gameplay ==
General

Facing down at an angle allows the player to place off of the front of the block without crouching and pointing their crosshair at it.
Blocks can be placed or broken more quickly in a row by holding the place button.
Block placing speed matches player movement speed.
Elytra flight can be disabled by pressing jump button while gliding.
Attempting to place blocks below the minimum height limit shows warning messages.
Block outline on double blocks (such as doors, beds and tall grass) is connected.
Has two types of block selection: Highlighted Color and Show Block Outline.
Pick block can replace items on the hotbar.
Hitting the air makes a sound.
Jumping sounds when jumping off of and landing on blocks.
Separate chat messages are shown when respawning at a bed or respawn anchor fails.
The world spawn is restricted to certain common biomes.
Achievements

A game progression system similar to Java Edition's advancements.
Achievements are tracked for the whole game rather than one world.
Completing certain achievements grants Character Creator items, emotes, and Xbox gamerscore.
Can be sorted by game progress, update, or completion.
Achievements can be marked as in progress.
Some achievements are equivalent to some advancements in Java Edition but many are exclusive.
Breaking

Range is 5 blocks on keyboard & mouse and controller controls, 12 blocks in Creative on touch controls, and 6 blocks in Survival on touch controls.
Creative mode

Letting go any movement keys while flying makes the player stop immediately.
Players crouch when flying down in Creative mode.
Players can "step upward" while flying.
When touching the ground while flying down in Creative mode, the player will not stop flying.
Players in Creative mode cannot be killed.
Death
Death screen uses Ore UI.
The death screen is slightly darkened and a maroon vignette appears and closes around the screen,
Upon dying, the camera switches to third-person view and zooms out for the purpose of allowing the player to see their cause of death.
Unique death messages for being killed by llama spit and shulker bullet projectiles.
Difficulty

Food can be eaten in Peaceful difficulty when the hunger bar is full.
Education features

Minecraft Education features from the Chemistry Update are available as a cheat setting.
See Minecraft Education exclusive features for a full list of features available in Bedrock Edition.
Effects

Can be viewed in a separate GUI opened by pressing Z.
Timer is accurate (never displays as infinite).
Enchanting

Fire Aspect can be used to ignite TNT, light unlit candles, and light campfires.
Multiple arrows fired in the same shot with Multishot can hit and damage the same entity at the same time.
Piercing V or higher still makes arrows shoot pass through hit entities, instead of getting stuck.
Channeling can be used to hit entities with lightning when they are inside blocks or vehicles.
Impaling applies extra damage to all mobs when underwater or during rain.
Riptide deals splash damage, except when the trident is thrown from a dispenser.
Damage increase for Sharpness, Smite, and Bane of Arthropods is calculated differently, resulting in increased overall damage.
Sharpness, Smite, and Bane of Arthropods can be applied to an axe in an enchanting table.
Thorns can be applied to all armor pieces in an enchanting table.
Fatal Poison 

An effect occurred when a parrot is given a cookie.
Can hurt and kill both undead and non-undead mobs similar to Wither effect.
Damage is classified as magic attack, unlike Wither.
Haste, Strength and Weakness

Have more complex methods of calculating the increase/decrease in attack speed/damage per level.
The haste effect is generally more powerful than in Java Edition.
Hero of the Village
Pop up shows an animation similar to the totem of undying.
Amplifier is always I, regardless of waves defeated in raids.
Stored per saved village, and considered as AoE buff.
Is not removed from drinking milk, using a Totem of Undying, or dying.‌
Night Vision

The End sky turns white for players with the Night Vision effect.
Levitation

Works underwater.
Player permissions
In addition to the internal permission level, each player in a server or multiplayer game has permissions that affect what a player can do in the world.
The owner of the world can change each player's permissions in the pause menu, or in permissions.json for servers.
Pillager patrol

On Easy difficulty, patrols can only spawn at light level 7 or less, on Normal and Hard difficulty, they can spawn at any light level.
Can spawn inside villages.
Attacked patrol members provokes all illagers in the patrol.
Raid

The number of waves and illager spawning depends on the difficulty rather than the level of Bad Omen.
Bells ring automatically when the raid bar fills up.
Have additional loot, including emeralds, enchanted books, iron tools, weapons, and armor, possibly enchanted.
Raid Omen
Pop up shows an animation similar to the totem of undying.
Sleeping
Sleeping screen uses Ore UI and has the chat not opened by default.
When sleeping, the camera is animated and moves slowly downward, as if the player starts laying in the bed.
A dark screen overlay is animated from the top and bottom and darkens the whole screen almost pitch black.
Regeneration

Extended potions of regeneration and enchanted golden apples give the Regeneration effect for almost ⅓ longer.
Spawn event

A way to spawn entities under certain event conditions. Spawn events are used in commands such as /summon and /event.
Spectator mode

Can be entered from the game settings.
Water breathing

Allows usage of waterlogged beds.
Prevents aquatic mobs from taking suffocation damage above the water.
Prevents suffocation damage inside blocks.
Weather
Sky color during rain is gray, rather than bluish-gray.
Lightning changes color from white to orange at sunset, and appears brighter during the daytime.
Rainfall and snowfall can have variable strengths.
During precipitation the sun and moon remain visible in biomes without rain or snow.
The sky color is still darkened and mobs can still spawn during thunderstorms.
Rain is slightly tilted.
Snow particles can fall twisting, bending, and moving around, independent of a block.
The transition between precipitation and dry biomes, or snowfall and rainfall is a mix between the precipitation in both biomes, which strengthens from one biome to another depending on the player's position rather than the border between the biomes.
This is also applied vertically.


== Blocks ==
General

Light-emitting blocks are brighter and not shaded.
Light-emitting blocks also appear brighter in the inventory. They look like  instead of .
Various blocks have randomly rotated textures, including clay, coarse dirt, crying obsidian, dirt, glowstone, leaves, magma blocks, nylium, obsidian, sand, sandstone, snow blocks, sponges, and terracotta.
Almost every non-full block can be waterlogged.
Some semi-transparent blocks, like glass panes and sugar cane, become more transparent when the camera is close to the block, which can be toggled in the settings.
Slabs, stairs, and farmland do not block light.
More different values of sky light reduction per block.
The player's inventory can contain blocks, not just items.
For example, stone is handled as a block in the player's inventory, as opposed to an item in Java Edition.
Through add-ons, inventory editing, or glitches, the player can obtain technical blocks such as lit furnaces and End gateways.
Blocks in the inventory can have block states. For example, the player can obtain mushroom blocks with pores on some or all sides.
Many more blocks with a random horizontal or vertical offset also have their hitbox offset.
Coral has a horizontal hitbox offset and coral fans have horizontal hitbox and texture offsets.
Fluids

Blocks that can be destroyed by fluids are unable to be placed in fluids.
Holding fluids by bucket will not briefly remove the fluid when the player is underwater.
Make the player float up or down slightly if the eye level of the player ends up being at the height of the water/lava during creative flight.
If the camera ends up at the height of water or lava in other situations, the camera is moved instead.
Plants

Some plants can be "snowlogged"; snow can be placed inside plant blocks and completely cover the plant with multiple layers.
Plants can also generate snowlogged.
Snowlogged firefly bushes do not emit light.
Crops, melons, and pumpkins grow more slowly than in Java Edition.
Allow and deny  

Exclusive blocks only available through commands.
Used to define areas where players in Adventure mode can or cannot break or place blocks.
Banners

Banners can be customized with a crafting table using the old banner customization recipes.
Barriers

Visual mechanics are much cleaner and less resource-intensive - instead of summoning multiple particles in the same spot that take a while to decay, the barrier immediately becomes visible or invisible when the barrier is in the hand or not.
Players and dispensers in any game mode can waterlog barriers or remove water from it.
Beacons

Instantly turns on, on the first tick when placed.
Beds

Have 2D item models. They look like  instead of .
Bells

Can be rung by any projectiles (including thrown items).
Projectiles get bounced back after hitting the bell.
Big dripleaf

Water can flow through big dripleaf plants.
Border 

Exclusive block only available through commands.
A type of wall where players cannot pass through at any vertical height above or below the block.
Emits unique particles.
Buttons

Can be placed on top of fences.
Do not get broken when placed on the side of a piston when the piston is activated.
Do not get broken by water or lava.
Cacti

Render the back faces.
Cakes

Make burp sound when eaten.
Stack up to 64.
Campfires

Can be lit by players and mobs standing on top when they are on fire.
Can be lit by a sword or axe with the Fire Aspect enchantment.
Can be extinguished at the bottom face.
Can also be extinguished by placing a water source or allowing water to flow in the space above.
Display custom item names as name tags above the campfire on hover.
Candles

Can be lit by players and mobs standing on top when they are on fire.
Can be lit by a sword or axe with the Fire Aspect enchantment.
Candles can be lit in Adventure mode.
Cartography tables
Can be used to rename maps.
Can be used to create locator maps.
Can be used to turn paper into maps.
Show the top of a cartography table in the GUI, covered with a glass pane when locking maps.
Cauldrons

Are block entities.
Can hold up to three potions, including splash potions and lingering potions.
Cauldrons in swamp huts generate with random potions inside.
Arrows can be tipped by right-clicking on a potion cauldron. The maximum amount of arrows tipped at once depends on the amount of potions in the cauldron; a full cauldron can tip a stack of arrows.
Potion cauldrons produce an explosion animation and empty the cauldron when a different fluid is added to the cauldron.
Can hold twice as many levels of liquid at once.
Cauldrons beneath water fill up with water.
Using a lava bucket on a water or snow cauldron removes the water or snow.
Water in cauldrons can be colored using dyes. Multiple dyes can be added for unique colors.
Leather armor, leather horse armor, and wolf armor dyeing has to be done using a cauldron rather than in the crafting grid.
Cave vines

Can grow in the Nether.
Chests, trapped chests, and ender chests

Have full block item models. They look like  instead of .
Command blocks

GUI is a full menu rather than an overlay.
GUI shows target selectors.
Have a delay option.
Can set a hover note, which shows when targeting at the command block.
Command input can be expanded into a full typing interface.
Composters

When the composter’s fullness increases, any entities inside are pushed up accordingly.
Conduit

Can be oriented in 16 different directions when placed, like standing signs, banners and heads.
When activated by 42 specified blocks, changes its inside texture another time.
Have more particles.
Coral

Coral can be grown by using bone meal underwater outside of warm ocean biomes.
Larger variation in the amount of time it takes for coral to die when not exposed to water.
Coral blocks

Always dies after 2.25 seconds of being out of water.
Do not die if they are surrounded by any non-air blocks.
Coral fans

Wall fans have one texture pane, as opposed to two in Java Edition.
Instantly turn into dead coral fans if placed outside of water.
Daylight detectors

The inverted variant of daylight detectors can be obtained in Creative mode using pick block.
Dead coral and dead coral fans

Can be obtained using any Silk Touch tool, not just a pickaxe.
Decorated pots

Play different sounds when picked up without shattering.
Dirt paths

Can support torches, levers, buttons, tripwire hooks, coral fans, rails, vines, ladders and bells on the sides.
Drop itself when broken using Silk Touch.
Dragon eggs

Two dragon eggs spawn per world instead of one.
Enchanting table

Appears more brightly lit.
End portals

Reduce fall damage.
Allow withers to teleport.
Farmland

Can support torches, levers, buttons, tripwire hooks, coral fans, rails, vines, ladders and bells on the sides.
Does not dehydrate when growing plants.
Fire

The side texture of fire is slightly tilted towards the center of the block.
Rain extinguishes fire more quickly.
Players catch fire immediately after walking through it.
Flowers

Using bone meal on small flowers spawns other flowers of the same type on top of nearby dirt/grass blocks. This does not apply to wither roses.
Poppies can also spawn dandelions and vice versa.
Frosted ice

Melts faster after walking with Frost Walker boots.
Can be obtained in the inventory with /give. 
Glass panes

Have 3D inventory models.  
Grass blocks

Can be composted.
Using bone meal on a grass block can produce ferns.
Hanging roots

Can be obtained using any Silk Touch tool.
Honey blocks

Can support torches, levers, buttons, tripwire hooks, coral fans, rails, vines, ladders and bells on the sides.
Entities slide much less compared to Java Edition.
Honey blocks moved by pistons move entities that are touching the side of the block.
Transfers redstone power (not a transparent block).
Jump height on honey blocks is lower.
Fences, glass panes, walls and iron bars connect with honey blocks.
Hoppers

A chain of hoppers with air or non-container blocks on top has better performance than a chain of hoppers topped by container blocks.
Hoppers with multiple dropped items above them collect the items in the order in which they entered the chunk in which the hopper is located.
Hoppers have a "collection cooldown" time. After collecting an item (or stack of items), a hopper waits 4 redstone ticks (0.4 seconds, barring lag) before attempting to collect again.
Invisible bedrock

A block used for the void floor in all three dimensions.
Iron bars

Have different models and appearance when unconnected.
Item frames and glow item frames

Are blocks instead of entities, allowing for some exclusive features like breaking time and waterlogging.
Can be placed on the lid of a shulker box without popping off when the lid is opened.
Can be placed on the top face of fences, walls, and fence gates.
Display particles when broken.
Several items on the item frame glow in the dark:
Items that have enchantment glint overlay.
Light-emitting block items (including lava bucket and with the exception of campfires).
Jigsaw blocks

GUI and functionality is different.
Lava

Lava does not deactivate elytra flight.
Still lava correctly displays a still lava texture at the sides of glass blocks, instead of a downward flowing texture.
Leaves
Leaves with snow on top make snowfall particles, similar to how blocks make water/lava drip through.
Render the back faces. 
When in snowy biomes, leaves gradually become fully white when it snows. 
Leaf particles also turn white during snowfall.
Waterlogged leaves flood the area.
Jungle leaves have a different inventory model.  
Lecterns

Because Bedrock Edition displays two pages of the book at once, the same signal strength increments require double the number of pages.
The tops of lecterns are slightly less than one block wide.
Levers

Can be placed on the top of a fence, wall or hopper.
Do not get broken by water or lava.
Light

Can be replaced by placing a block in its place.
Can be moved by pistons.
Produce particles when broken.
Use different inventory textures. They look like  instead of .
Lightning rods

Has a radius of 128 blocks instead of 64.
Lightning can strike a lightning rod hit by a trident enchanted with Channeling during rain or thunderstorms, even if there are solid blocks above it blocking rainfall, as long as all the blocks are fully transparent.
Lily pads

Are brighter in the inventory.
Are considered treasure loot in fishing instead of junk loot as in Java Edition.
Can be placed inside entities.
Looms

Banner designs are listed in a separate tab on the GUI similar to the Creative inventory instead of inside the inventory tab.
This makes all banner designs visible at once.
Preview all banner designs without a banner and dye in the input slots.
Monster spawners

Mobs are spawned within 4 blocks of taxicab distance from a spawner, resulting in a diamond-shaped volume where mobs can spawn.
Some animals require light level 7+ to be spawned, e.g. chicken, sheep, cow, rabbit.
Spawners can only spawn fish if the spawner is waterlogged.
Moss blocks

Can spread on polished andesite, polished diorite, and polished granite.
Growing trees other than spruce or azalea on a moss block will turn the moss block to dirt.
Moss blocks require air above a replaceable block to spread.
Muddy mangrove roots

Saplings convert muddy mangrove roots into dirt when grown.
Mushrooms

Can generate in caves.
Mushroom blocks

Mushroom pore blocks are available in the Creative inventory, as a fourth variant of a mushroom block obtainable in Creative.
Nether portals

Have 3D block models.
Netherrack

Generates additionally next to the obsidian floor when a Nether portal generates floating in the air, making it renewable.
Note blocks

Honeycomb blocks, infested blocks, and blocks of resin produce a flute sound.
Ominous banners

Have a longer flagpole model when worn by illagers.
Worn using an illager's chestplate slot rather than helmet slot.
Can be copied using loom or crafting table.
Petrified oak slabs

Drop a normal oak slab.
Called "Wooden Slab" in-game.
Pistons and sticky pistons

A powered unextended piston immediately extends if it becomes able to rather than waiting for an update.
Blocks that contain block entities (except banners, signs, and campfires) can be moved by pistons.
Blocks that stick to walls (such as levers) can be placed on pistons without being destroyed when activated.
Break banners and signs, rather than being unable to extend.
Have a 1 game tick delay between powering/depowering and extension/retraction.
Have a block entity; control pick blocking an extended piston gives a piston that deletes any block in front of it when placed.
Piston head model has a larger "neck".
Piston head has a slightly different side texture.
Pistons only extend/retract when the previous action finished.
Can push and pull bells, lanterns and candles.
Blocks retracted by sticky pistons take entities with them.
Pointed dripstone

Placing a pointed dripstone with commands places a stalactite instead of a stalagmite.
Jumping on a stalagmite makes the falling sound and particles.
Powder snow

Freezing effect looks slightly different.
Particles appear when an entity is extinguished by powder snow.
Powder snow slows down flying fireworks.
Pumpkins

Can generate in frozen peaks, jagged peaks, stony peaks, meadows, cherry groves, lush caves and mangrove swamps.
Rails

Are broken by flowing water.
Redstone comparators

Can be placed on walls and fences.
Comparators can read inventories through chains.
Redstone dust

Connects to pistons.
Power transmission is in a random order.
Remains on the base of a piston after being extended and then retracted.
Transparent blocks can pass redstone power downward.
Redstone repeaters

Can be placed on walls and fences.
Redstone torches

Redstone torches can be turned off with a one-tick pulse.
Redstone torches on powered pistons always turn off.
Have a different appearance. 
Sand

Sand block shading is lighter.
Scaffolding

Are slightly 3D around the mesh. 
Have no mesh on its bottom when floating. 
Have a different item model.  
Sculk catalysts

Have a larger detection range for mob deaths.
Sculk sensors

Different tendril animations and textures.
Sculk sensors are activated upon placing eyes of ender into end portal frames.
Sculk shriekers

Sculk shrieker particles last longer.
Seagrass

Have a different item model. 
Shulker boxes

Can't open if obstructed by a redstone conductive block.
Items inside are listed on the tooltip as properties when being held.
Signs

Are flammable.
GUI is much bigger and always shows a wall sign.
The GUI can be closed by clicking anywhere next to the sign rather than with a button.
Can be placed on top of more blocks.
Support formatting codes for decorative effects such as color or italics.
Writing jumps to the next line if it doesn't fit, rather than stopping inserting text.
Writing JSON on a sign shows the JSON output, rather than the input on the sign.
Small dripleaf

Leaves can overlap when placed next to each other.
Small dripleaf can partially break from lack of water.
Small dripleaf can be placed in flowing water.
Snow

Can be removed by right-clicking with a shovel.
With Silk Touch, this will drop snowballs instead of the block.
Can generate randomly in multiple layers.
Generates and can be placed on packed ice and blue ice.
Is affected by gravity.
When falling on other snow, it'll add the layer count together and add an additional few.
Melts in snowless biomes.
If there are multiple layers, the layers melt gradually.
While snowing snow randomly stacks together to have random patches, opposed to being completely flat.
Soul sand

Can support torches, levers, buttons, tripwire hooks, coral fans, rails, vines, ladders and bells on the sides.
Sponges

A wet sponge placed in any dry biome in the Overworld dries out after a few minutes and turns into a normal sponge.
If a normal sponge comes into contact with water in a dry biome, it absorbs the water and immediately dries out with a puff of steam.
Stonecutter

Can be crafted using andesite, diorite and granite.
Structure blocks
Can export and import .mcstructure files, which can be used directly in a behavior pack.
Show a rotatable preview of the structure.
Has placement animation options in Load mode.
Remove blocks (can include entity without saving any block as structures).
Structure size is limited to 64 on horizontal axis and 384 on the Y-axis, rather than 48.
Usage is explained in-game.
Option to save structures in the world data when powered by redstone rather than memory.
Can waterlog blocks.
Can export structures as 3D renders to view them in external programs like Paint 3D.
Can toggle bounding box in any mode.
Structure void

Can support blocks such as signs, torches, and redstone wire.
Have different (full) textures and inventory icons.
Sugar cane

Bone meal can be used on sugar cane.
Instantly breaks if its water is removed, rather than not breaking until updated as in Java Edition.
Grows much more slowly than in Java Edition.
Sugar cane can generate in frozen peaks, jagged peaks, stony peaks, meadows, cherry groves, lush caves and mangrove swamps.
Tall grass

Can generate in windswept savannas and snowy plains.
TNT

TNT submerged in water can destroy armor stands, leash knots and paintings.
Tripwire

Can be activated by thrown eyes of ender, the ender dragon, and items clipped into solid blocks.
Water

Underwater brightness is much brighter than in Java Edition.
Water has different surface and fog colors, strengths, or opacities for every biome, rather than only in ocean and swamp biomes.
Notable colors are deep green/brown in taigas, dark red in the Nether, purple in the End, and purple/brown in mushroom fields.
Water color is not hard-coded. Texture color, underwater fog color and fog distance are defined in biome JSON files in resource packs.
Underwater sky lighting visually changes depending on player's underwater level.
Still water displays a still water texture at the sides of glass blocks, instead of just a solid color.
Underwater fog is thicker than in Java Edition.


== Items ==
General

Held items in third person point up more.
Most items with durability have one additional durability point.
Because of this, a single unenchanted brush can get 5 armadillo scutes from an armadillo instead of 4.
Players throwing items emits a sound.
Can be stacked up to 127 using commands.
Ink sacs, cocoa beans, lapis lazuli, and bone meal can be used to substitute corresponding dyes with crafting.
Armor

When worn, the diamond chestplate's sleeve has a distinct model from Java Edition.

Books and quills and written books

GUI has 2 pages open at once.
GUI has options to delete pages, insert empty pages, and swap pages.
Writing is always saved when pressing Esc or X and does not require to press a "Done" button.
When signed, the author can be anything the player wants.
Book signing GUI has unique texture.
Text can be pasted in the title.
Title can be up to 16 characters long.
Writing JSON in the book shows the JSON output, rather than the input in the book.
Buckets of tropical fish

Tropical fish inside are always named with their colors, following "Bucket of [<color 1> - [<color 2>]] <tropical fish name>" instead of showing the colors below the name.
Five colors have unique names instead of Minecraft's color names.
Compass

Needle has an animation when the compass changes direction by being used on a lodestone.
Lodestone compass is a separate item and has a tooltip. 
Ender pearls

Travel further when thrown.
Eyes of ender

If the player travels beyond a certain radius (roughly 740,000 blocks), eyes of ender always point to a stronghold near spawn, even though strongholds continue to generate past this limit. If one travels to this limit, they can see eyes of ender suddenly switching direction.
Fishing rods

Carrots and warped fungi on sticks can be crafted using damaged fishing rods.
Have a higher durability (384 compared to 64 in Java Edition).
Mobs riding other mobs dismount when hooked by a fishing rod.
Maps and explorer maps

Filled maps and explorer maps have different item models.  
The map and empty map equivalent to Java Edition are called "Empty Locator Map" and "Locator Map".
A separate "regular" map item exists that can be crafted with 9 paper in a crafting table or one paper in a cartography table. This map does not show location markers.
Locator maps can be crafted with one paper and one compass in a cartography table.
The coloring of grass blocks, water, etc. on the map depends on the biome they are placed on.
Have an unlimited color palette and a different set of colors for blocks.
Map adding locator, cloning and expanding can also be done in anvils.
Individual pixels of zoomed out maps depends on one single block instead of the highest amount of the same block in a section.
 All players in multiplayer are displayed on a map with marker colors corresponding to the locator bar.
Show player heads instead of arrows in multiplayer when the player is nearby.
Players wearing mob heads are invisible on maps.
Using an Overworld map in the Nether shows the corresponding location. Using an Overworld map in the End shows the world spawn point.
The zoom level of a map is always displayed in its tooltip.
Locator map pointers become invisible when far away.
Locked maps have unique item models. 
Maps can be renamed in a cartography table.
More map icons exist, some of which are unused.
Maps in generated loot are filled.
Nether stars

Never despawn when dropped.
Ominous bottles

Effects are applied with a slight delay after drinking.
Potions

Potions, splash potions, lingering potions, and tipped arrows of Decay exist, which apply the Wither effect.    
The potions are exclusive to Creative mode but tipped arrows can be obtained by trading with master fletchers.
Extended long mundane potion, splash potion, lingering potion, and arrow; the 3 potion variants are available in the Creative inventory.
The corruption of Healing II or Poison II potions results in a potion of Harming I.
Hitting an undead mob with a Regeneration Potion always registers as Regeneration I, no matter the level of the used potion.
Splash and lingering potions can be used to extinguish a burning entity in the Nether.
Weakness potions can be brewed by awkward, mundane, long mundane, thick, and Strength potions.
Recovery compass

Can be enchanted with Curse of Vanishing.
Shields

Are activated by sneaking.
Are always activated when riding entities.
Smithing templates

"Spire", "Tide", and "Dune" armor trims can be duplicated with more blocks than in Java Edition. In addition to the normal blocks, "Tide" armor trims can be duplicated using prismarine bricks or dark prismarine, "Dune" armor trims can be duplicated using smooth sandstone, cut sandstone, or chiseled sandstone, and "Spire" armor trims can be duplicated using purpur pillars.
Spears

Have a use cooldown instead of an attack cooldown when using the jab attack.
Suspicious stew

Effects have a shorter duration.
Sweet berries

Restore 1.2 saturation instead of 0.4.
Tipped arrows

Display more particles.
Tridents

Can hurt multiple mobs in one throw.
Can be shot from dispensers, rather than thrown as an item.
Tridents with Loyalty return to the player, even if thrown into the Void.
Thrown tridents don't despawn.


== Entities ==
General

Entities on fire have an orange-yellow tint and an exclusive particle.
Entities with the Fire Resistance effect or a total Fire Protection of 7 or higher do not catch fire.
Entities become slightly transparent when the camera gets closer, which can be toggled in the settings.
Entities do not take entity cramming damage and can be crammed infinitely.
Pillagers and vindicators can wear armor, though it does not render.
Silverfish and endermites have walking sounds.
Slimes and magma cubes can spawn in smaller spaces (2×2x2) than in Java Edition (3x2.1x3).
Slimes and magma cubes can damage snow golems.
Villagers and iron golems prefer walking on certain types of blocks over others.
Wandering traders run away from zombified piglins.
Mobs that can pick up items will actively try to pick them up.
Solid entity collisions can't push players into a crawling position.
Mobs have better pathfinding AI for blocks like rails and azaleas. Mobs generally get less often stuck and start spinning on such blocks.
Many mobs appear to have glowing textures, even without Vibrant Visuals. Most notably, spider eyes, ghast eyes, and glow squid are brighter.
Agents  

A mob primarily used in Minecraft Education but also obtainable via commands.
Can be programmed to perform specific actions.
Stays invisible and can't be interacted with, except if it is connected to Code Connection through WebSocket.
Allays

Can follow players through portals by teleporting across dimensions.
Has different animations.
Can have a lead or name tag attached by shift clicking.
Animals

Animals that are in love mode emit heart particles constantly.
Aquatic mobs can survive on land if given the water breathing effect.
Death messages are produced upon the death of a tamed donkey, llama, trader llama, horse, or mule.
Feeding mobs makes the corresponding food particles and plays a sound.
Some animals detect and follow players holding food from a greater distance.
Striders and hoglins share a mob cap.
The player can hold an object that cannot be used when mounting a wild ride, instead of just their bare hand.
Armor stands
Are affected by splash potions effect.
Have a brief death animation when killed with a Harming, Wither, or Poison potion.
Can be renamed using name tags.
Armor stands named "Dinnerbone" or "Grumm" turn upside-down.
Can change pose depending on a redstone signal or by sneaking and interacting.
Can use totems of undying.
Can ride minecarts and boats.
Have arms and can hold items by default.
Renamed armor stands display their name tag like mobs and players.
Stack up to 64.
Axolotls

Can breed again after 1 minute instead of 5.
Can turn their heads.
Regeneration effect given to players has no time limit.
Keep status effects when caught in a bucket.
Boats

Boats can be ridden upward in descending water.
Do not sink when submerged but instead float up.
Falling boats can go through other entities.
Have 40 health points instead of 4 health points.
Mobs can be picked up by a boat being ridden by a player.
Leashed boats can bounce when the player jumps.
Breeze

Faster spinning animation. 
Eye emissive layer is rendered over the entire body instead of only the head.
Cats

25% chance to spawn as a kitten.
Spawns as a black cat with a 50% chance on a full moon night.
Stray kittens follows stray cats.
Can not teleport when blocking a container.
Cod

Can spawn in frozen oceans.
Copper golems

Can distinguish different types of potions, tipped arrows, and suspicious stew.
Creepers

Charged creeper explosions drop heads/skulls for all mobs it kills that have a head/skull, rather than dropping one head/skull.
Dolphins

Attacks the player more often while angered.
Swims in groups of 2.
Baby dolphins follow nearby adult dolphins.
Produce bubble particles when swimming.
Apply a speed boost directly to players rather than providing an effect.
Donkeys

More donkeys naturally spawn at once.
Chests attached to donkeys and mules wobble while the animal walks.
Drowned

Are neutral during the day, not passive.
Chase and attack villagers and snow golems.
Have exclusive attack animations.
Have a swimming animation.
Have glowing eyes and mouth.
Have proper throwing animations.
Spawn in groups of 2 to 4 in oceans.
When holding tridents, can use melee attacks when within 3 blocks.
Elder guardians

Inflicts any unafflicted player within range with Mining Fatigue immediately.
Make their underwater death sounds if killed on land.
The animation when inflicting Mining Fatigue uses a separate entity, the elder guardian ghost.
Can also be summoned using commands.
Endermen

Arrows go straight through endermen that are unable to teleport, but effects are still applied if it is a tipped arrow.
Can be provoked by players under the Invisibility effect.
Take damage from standing in cauldrons filled with water.
Teleports away if being attacked on their legs or by wolves.
Endermen can be attacked with projectiles if they are in a boat or minecart.
Endermites

Are hostile to endermen and iron golems.
Spawn at an ender pearl's landing site.
Evokers

Have 2 () armor points.
Firework rockets

Have a cross model like arrows.
Fish

Cod, salmon, and pufferfish spawn in slightly larger groups and cannot spawn underneath solid blocks.
Have different swimming animations.
Pufferfish wiggle their tail rather than fins.
Cod and salmon wiggle their tail further than in Java Edition.
When flopping, they rotate around the Y-axis.
Fish avoid axolotls.
All fish drop bones instead of bone meal.
Bone drops are affected by Looting and can yield up to 8 bones.
Fishing bobbers

Fall much faster.
Have a 3D model. 
Foxes

Foxes that trust the player attack any mob that harms their trusted player, including other players.
If a fox wields a sword with the Fire Aspect enchantment while attacking a mob on a campfire or a soul campfire, it ignites the campfire and does critical damage to the entity.
Shake side to side before pouncing and their legs wave while in midair.
Frogs

Frogs that grow up in stony peaks biomes are green instead of orange.
Frogs that grow up in warm or cold ocean biomes become warm or cold variants instead of always becoming the temperate variant.
Ghasts

Holds its charge like a pillager when its target gets lost of its sight and shoots again instantly when in range.
Normally targets a player within a sphere of 28 blocks, increasing to 64 blocks if the player damages it.
Retaliate when attacked by other mobs.
Glow squid

Can spawn in any dimension.
Glow squid can spawn inside water (with any block above it), regardless of lighting.
Goats

Two screaming goats have a 2% chance of producing a non-screaming baby.
Goats can accidentally ram attack other goats.
Guardians

Can attack players under the Invisibility effect.
Happy ghasts

Have a 5% chance to spawn as ghastlings when spawned via spawn eggs.
Hoglins

Leads attached to hoglins do not break when hoglins turn into zoglins.
Horses

The player's health bar and hunger bar are displayed while riding a horse and the player's experience bar is replaced by the horse's jump bar when the jump control is activated
Iron golems

Can ride minecarts.
Can spawn during world generation.
Walk slightly faster.
Jockeys

Baby husks/zombies/drowned can ride many mobs other than just chickens
Jockey mechanics are different for zombies and variants. Babies have a 15% chance to spawn as a mob that can mount mobs, and will try to find mobs they can ride.
Cave spiders can spawn as spider jockeys.
Bogged, parched, and strays can naturally spawn on spider jockeys, depending on the biome.
Wither skeletons can also spawn on on spider jockeys when using spawn eggs in the Nether.
Riders do not always control the mob they are riding.
Leads

Have a better physics engine.
Leashes drag on the ground and don't get longer.
When in the air, the leashed mob doesn't bounce higher.
Stick to the arm while it's moving in third person.
Can be attached to cinnabar and sulfur walls and variants.​[upcoming: Chaos Cubed]
Llamas

Carpet becomes invisible if the llama is invisible.
Trader llamas are immediately tame after being unleashed from a wandering trader.
Can spawn in windswept savannas.
Llama spit can be deflected like ghast fireballs.
Magma cubes

Have glowing cores.
Minecarts

Can move trough entities without being stopped or losing velocity.
Players in minecarts can climb rail and unpowered rail slopes at the lowest speed.
Minecarts don't glide down on unpowered rail slopes.
Minecart with chests

Chest is rotated to the side instead of the front. 
Minecarts with command block

Use repeating command block instead of impulse by default. 
Minecarts with hopper

A minecart with hopper on a curved rail pulls in items in a hopper lying in front of its moving direction and one block above if the hopper's output funnel is pointed downward and no block is below that hopper.
Hopper minecarts can suck disks from jukeboxes while on a powered activator rail.
NPCs  

An interactive passive mob with models similar to villagers with customizable dialogs. 
Can have 60 different skins.
Can perform commands, either directly or by a button in the dialog menu.
Ocelots

Can spawn in all jungle variants.
Breeding creates an ocelot kitten that trusts the player.
Trusting ocelots don't despawn.
Pandas

Attack the player less often while angered.
Breeding behavior is different; they require 8 nearby bamboo blocks to enter love mode at all, while in Java they only require 1 bamboo block and enter love mode regardless, but just don't breed.
Drop 0-2 bamboo upon death, rather than always 1.
When lying on their back, lazy pandas get up and follow the player if they hold bamboo, rather than ignore the player completely.
Can spawn in sparse jungles.
Can be fed cakes.
Parrots

Dance on the player's shoulder when a music disc is playing.
Dismount when the player falls down a distance greater than 1 9⁄16 blocks, compared to 3⁄4 of a block in Java Edition.
Dismount when the player's shoulders become submerged in water, instead of feet in Java Edition.
Parrots sitting on the player's shoulders prevent the player from entering a Nether portal.
Parrots can imitate pandas, polar bears, wolves, endermen, and zombified piglins.
Can spawn in sparse jungles.
Pillager patrols

Can spawn in any light level.
Phantoms

Attempt to stay 16 blocks away from ocelots, similar to cats.
Have different attack strengths: 4HP on Easy difficulty, 6HP on Normal, and 9HP on Hard.
As of Java Edition 1.14, phantoms deal much less damage: 2HP on Easy and Normal, and 3HP on Hard.
Piglins

Are afraid of extinguished soul campfires.
Baby piglins can be made to wear armor and wield a sword, but not a gold sword.
Baby piglins drop 1XP instead of 5XP.
Baby piglins make angry noises when any piglin gets angry.
Can exist and spawn in Peaceful difficulty with passive behavior.
Hold a loaded crossbow with both hands.
When targeting with a crossbow, the arms are aligned. 
Need 8 seconds to barter, rather than 6.
Immediately attack players while bartering instead of waiting for the transaction to finish.
Piglin brutes

Deal less damage when armed.
Hunt down hoglins with piglins.
Pillagers

Drop 0-2 arrows upon death.
Have a melee attack.
Used when underwater only, not when no crossbow is equipped.
Have a unique celebration animation. 
Don't hold their crossbow with two hands unless they are targeting.
Hold a loaded crossbow with both hands.
Players

All projectiles knockback players.
Players can fall off non-full blocks when crouching.
Players have an eating and drinking animation in third person.
Player name tags completely disappear when sneaking.
Polar bears

Can spawn in frozen river, frozen peaks, jagged peaks, and snowy slopes.
Can drop both cod and salmon at once.
Projectiles

Snowballs and eggs deal knockback to players and trigger their pets to attack.
Snowballs, eggs, fishing rod bobbers, and wind charges thrown through fire or lava catch fire and can set fire to entities they hit.
Throwable entities such as eggs, ender pearls, and snowballs render immediately in front of the player after being thrown, rather than being rendered after two ticks as in Java Edition.
Pufferfish

Inflates when hurt.
Small pufferfish move their tails when swimming.
Rabbits

Baby rabbits follow adult rabbits..
Can spawn in frozen oceans, frozen peaks, frozen rivers, jagged peaks, and snowy beaches.
Can eat immature carrot crops.
Ravagers

Can destroy more block types.​[until: BE 26.20]
Have a delay between beginning their attack animation and dealing damage to their target.
Have a farther attack reach.
Salmon

Can spawn in lukewarm and normal oceans.
Silverfish

Attack iron golems before they are hit.
Shulkers

Can be colored by using a dye on them in Creative mode.
Can spawn in Peaceful mode.
Drop 0-4 shulker shells when killed with Looting III (increase of 1 shulker shell per level), instead of 0-1 as in Java (increase of 6.25% per level).
Skeletons, strays, and bogged

A skeleton on land shoots quickly at a player in water. The rate of fire increases as the player approaches, making combat difficult due to the knockback.
Skeletons typically stop moving to shoot, making no attempt to avoid being hit.
Skeletons typically shoot more rapidly at players the more they are closer to it.
Underwater, skeletons switch to melee attacks without using a bow and arrow.
Strays can spawn from skeleton spawners.
Skeleton horses

Can be controlled without a saddle.
Immune to lightning.
Killing a trap skeleton horse yields no items or experience.
Slimes

The chunks that slimes can naturally spawn in inhabit the same coordinates for every world.
Sniffers

Only sniffers at full health can breed.
Sniffers are healed by 2 health points each time they are fed a torchflower seed.
Snow golems

Don't leave snow trails in biomes with high temperature values, such as jungles, mushroom fields, savannas, stony peaks, deserts, badlands, and biomes in the Nether.
Spiders

Can spawn in 3x1x3 spaces beneath full solid blocks.
Squid

If a squid is out of the water, its tentacles swing more slowly as its oxygen meter goes down. When 15 seconds have passed, its tentacles stop swinging and the squid begins to suffocate.
Striders

Can move their heads up and down when being ridden by mobs.
Can spawn at the bottom of lava lakes.
Babies spawn more than adults.
Players can ride striders submerged in lava.
Tropical fish

Are bigger than in Java Edition.
Turtles

Much shorter breeding cooldown.
Vexes

Don't despawn after raids end.
Have a random chance of dropping an iron sword.
Villagers

Babies ignore players.
Babies can take poppies held by iron golems.
Baby villagers can grow into nitwits.
Display angry particles when nearby beds, bells, and assigned workstations are broken by a player.
Heal if there is bread in their inventory.
Heal after sleeping in a bed.
Prefer certain path blocks over others, especially dirt path and building blocks are preferred and job site blocks avoided.
If the beds or workstations tie in well, green particles are emitted from both the villagers and the beds or workstations.
If they lose their job site block, they go back to being an unemployed villager, unless they're a higher level.
Negative reputation can never increase the prices, only lower discounts. Instead, the entire village's population can increase prices.
Always spawn with random professions.
When showing an item they offer, they will slightly lift their arms.
During rain or snowfall, villagers enter houses and stop their daily schedule.
Summon iron golems based on village population and active working, rather than panicking or gossiping.
Activity schedule is more varied; gathering happens at noon, villagers stay at home before sleeping, and nitwits start and stop sleeping later.
Librarians inspect bookshelves.
Villager GUI always shows the next locked trades. 
Villagers can sometimes have three trades on one level.
Vindicators

Johnny vindicators target baby villagers and armor stands.
Arm position is different when not holding a weapon.
Wandering traders

Can spawn in village gathering sites.
Despawn shortly after all trades are used up.
Drink an Invisibility potion when hurt or near a hostile mob (illagers, vexes, and zombies and their variants).
Show the item they offer when the player is holding an emerald or tradable item.
Have an 8.5% chance to drop this item when killed.
Always spawns with two leashed trader llamas, even when spawned with a spawn egg.
Run away from zombified piglins.
Can sell mangrove logs.
Witches

Always spawn in a single spot in witch huts, rather than anywhere within a larger area.
Are immune to their own negative splash potion effects.
Attack iron golems before they are hit even if not in a raid or patrol.
Held potion and hat model pieces are offset. 
Withers

Have different AI.
Fly around their target, then fire a volley of 3 wither skulls and 1 blue wither skull.
Possess a dash attack.
Spawn four wither skeletons when at half health, except when on Easy difficulty.
Always break blocks that they touch.
Do not inflict the Wither effect on Easy difficulty.
Fire wither skulls at a faster rate the lower health they have.
Do not regenerate health.
Explode not just when created, but also when half health, and killed.
Have a different spawning and death animation.
Health depends on the world's difficulty. They have 300HP × 150 on Easy, 450HP × 225 on Normal, and 600HP × 300 on Hard, opposed to 300HP × 150 in Java Edition.
Wither skull projectiles can be deflected.
Blue wither skull projectiles can be deflected when hit.
Can break Nether portals and End gateways, and cannot break structure voids.
Zombies

Will break off from chasing a player to target closer villagers and golems.
Can see villagers through walls.
Zombie villagers

Nitwit zombie villagers can become employed after being cured.
Saving and reloading the world causes the curing process to finish as soon as the chunk containing the villager is ticked.
Zombie villagers spawn in groups.
Zombie villagers never count towards mob caps.
Zombified piglins

Using the classic texture pack turns the zombified piglin back into a classic zombie pigman.


== World generation ==
The Nether

Caves below the lava sea are not filled with lava.
The End

Uses one biome (The End) to generate the whole dimension.
This does not result in any gameplay or generation differences.
Void

A layer of invisible bedrock generates in the void in all dimensions to prevent players from falling further down.
Has the same color as the sky.
Entities take void damage at slightly lower depths.
Players in Creative mode don't take damage in the void.
World boundary

A world border does not exist and the world attempts to generate infinitely. Teleporting is limited to 30,000,000 blocks from the origin.
Distance effects gradually increase at higher distances and make the game unplayable after a certain distance.
The Stripe Lands are a graphical glitch with some distorted physics, usually seen as the world boundary.
Players next to water are teleported into the void.
Starts to generate at X/Z: ±16,777,216 and continues until the game's limits.
Generated structures can still generate.

Flat world

The Void preset uses the plains biome instead of The Void, allowing mobs to spawn on the void start platform.
Has no structures generated in any preset.
Old world type

A removed world type. Old worlds can no longer be created, but pre-existing old worlds remain. Old worlds can be converted to infinite worlds.
Finite, 256×128×256 world; although NBT editing can change the size of the world or it's location in the world seed.
Has some changed gameplay and other limitations.
Biomes

Dripstone caves, meadows, and cherry groves are colder, allowing snowfall at lower elevations.
Each biome has a unique snow accumulation height.
Badlands

Generation of terracotta layers in the badlands have their Y-axis varied by a few layers randomly across the X/Z axis.
Jungle

Generates slightly less tall jungle trees.
Snowy plains and frozen river

No monsters other than strays and skeletons can naturally spawn here.
Swamp
Generate with huge mushrooms.
Windswept gravelly hills
Surface is covered almost entirely with gravel, with a few one block wide strips of grass blocks inside.
Lacks of trees as the now unused gravelly mountains+ biome served this purpose.
Windswept hills

Lacks of trees as the windswept forest serves this purpose.
Structures

Have display names and translations.
Buried treasures

Are much more common.
Can generate in stony shore biomes.
Desert pyramids

Are slightly more common.
If generated in a ravine or river, the temple's floor are replaced by the bottom of the ground in a ravine or river, rather than just one block from a TNT shape.
If generated in stripe land, it has a very tall foundation to bedrock layer, unlike in deserts that never have a tall foundation if generated with air in the bottom.
Igloos

Generate with packed ice windows instead of ice.
The villager spawned in the basement is from the snowy type and has a random profession.
Jungle pyramids

Cannot generate in bamboo jungles.
Ocean monuments

Always generate at the same Y level, with the top of the roof at Y=56.
Ocean ruins

Are much more common.
Pillager outposts
Can generate with a tall foundation.
Can generate in snowy taigas and sunflower plains.
Can generate at any location regardless of nearby villages, even inside villages.
Ruined portals

Chest cannot be overridden by world generation features.
Shipwrecks

Shipwrecks are present with their masts made of stripped logs.
Acacia variants of shipwrecks can generate.
Strongholds

Has a larger chance to generate under a village meeting point to easily detect without an eye of ender, even when the eye of ender has been added.
Number of strongholds able to generate per world is random instead of 128 per world.
3 strongholds generate in a ring centered at 0,0 and other strongholds generate infinitely around the world.
The 5-way crossing room in strongholds usually has 1–4 entrances sealed.
Altar chests can contain emeralds.
Storeroom chests can contain ink sacs.
Swamp huts

Cauldron is 1⁄3 to 2⁄3 filled with a random potion or splash potion.
Can generate in swamp hills.
Villages

Plains tannery only generate a one cauldron so there aren't multiple leatherworkers in one building.
A crafting table and empty barrel generate inside the house instead of a chest and two barrels outside.
Can generate in snowy taigas and sunflower plains.
Are slightly more common.
Woodland mansions
Can generate in lush caves and dripstone caves.
Bonus chest

Can contain saplings and seeds.
Canyons

Are generally larger and deeper.
Coral reefs

Coral crust include andesite, granite, diorite, dead coral fan, and dead coral blocks.
Use NBT structure block generation.
Desert wells

Generation is 1 in 500 chunks, rather than 1 in 1000.
When generated, sometimes consist of 2 desert wells, rather than 1.
Erosions

Generate properly in all Overworld biomes.
Icebergs

Generate twice as often.
Nether portal

If generated in mid-air, netherrack generates as a part of the generation, even in the Overworld.
Ores

Can generate in polished andesite, diorite, and granite in structures.
Ancient debris ores generate much more often.
Trees
Can generate and grow as a dying variant, covered in vines.


== Commands ==
General

Commands can be performed by NPCs and connected WebSocket servers.
Most commands are not available at all in worlds with cheats disabled.
A relative coordinate can have the next relative coordinate right behind it (without a space).
The list of suggested inputs in the chat shows icons for blocks and items.
Command macros can be used to exectute any command with a hotkey.
Target selectors

@initiator exists to select players who click an NPC dialogue button.
Can select targets by family, permission, item, and property.
Exclusive commands

/agent
Used to let agents perform certain actions.
/aimassist
Modifies a player's aim assist.
/camera
Used to customize the player's camera view in various ways.
/camerashake
Used to make the player's camera shake.
/changesetting
Server command to enable/disable cheats or change the difficulty.
/clearrealmevents
Resets Realm Events on a server.
/clearspawnpoint
Removes a player's spawn point in the world.
/codebuilder_actorinfo
/controlscheme
Modifies player's control scheme of camera presets.
/daylock
Locks the time to noon.
/alwaysday as alias.
/dedicatedwsserver
/dialogue
Opens an NPC dialog on a player's screen, or can be used to change an NPC's dialog.
/drop
Lets an agent drop specified items.
/enableencryption
Enables encryption for WebSocket connections.
/event
Triggers a spawn event for an entity.
/fog
Manages fog settings for a player.
/gametips
Enables or disables tutorial hints.
/getlocalplayername
Returns the local player name.
/gettopsolidblock
Gets the position of the top non-air block below the specified position.
/hud
Adjusts visibility of a specified HUD element.
/inputpermission
Specifies permissions for operations (such as walking) for a player.
/listd
Lists detail information about players on the server.
/mobevent
Enables or disables the spawning of wandering traders, pillager patrols, and the ender dragon. This is controlled by game rules in Java Edition.
/music
Plays and stops music or changes the volume or queue.
In Java Edition, the /playsound command can be used instead.
/packstack
Displays active resource and behavior packs in the chat.
/permission
Lists, reloads, or sets player permissions on a server.
/ops as alias.
/playanimation
Makes entities play various animations.
/querytarget
Gets transform, name, and id information about the given target entity or entities.
/reloadconfig
Reloads configuration files relating to variables, permissions, etc.
/reloadpacketlimitconfig
Reloads packetlimitconfig.json configuration file.
/replaceitem
Replaces an item in a specified slot of a container block or entity's inventory.
/script
Debugging options for GameTest Framework.
/scriptevent
Triggers a script event with an ID and message.
/sendshowstoreoffer
Shows store offers to a player.
/setmaxplayers
Changes the maximum amount of players that can join the world.
/set_movement_authority
Control the client or server to check a player movement.
/structure
Saves and loads structures similar to structure blocks.
/takepicture
Takes a picture of a player or from a players view.
/testfor
Counts entities matching specified conditions.
/testforblock
Tests whether a certain block is in a specific location.
/testforblocks
Tests whether the blocks in two regions match
/tickingarea
Used to load chunks, similar to /forceload in Java Edition.
/toggledownfall
Changes the weather between clear weather and precipitation.
/transferserver
Transfers players to other servers.
/wsserver
Used to connect the client to WebSocket servers.
/connect as alias.
/gamerule

More game rules:
functionCommandLimit
recipesUnlock
respawnBlocksExplode
showBorderEffect
showCoordinates
showDaysPlayed
showRecipeMessages
showTags
Certain gamerule commands are available even without turning on cheats.
Disabling doMobSpawning gamerule prevents passive mobs and mobs from structures from spawning.
/gamemode and /difficulty

Can be typed with abbreviated forms and numeric IDs.
/help

List of commands is organized into pages.
/? as alias.
/ride

Allows to summon riders or rides for mobs.
Allows to select rides to dismount their riders.
/save-all, /save-off and /save-on

Are all merged into /save.
/teleport

Has optional boolean to cancel teleporting if it ends up inside collision boxes of blocks.
/time

Time can be set to sunrise and sunset.
/title

/title does not support raw JSON text, only plain strings, instead /titleraw exists to allow raw JSON text.
/weather

Can be used to show the current weather.


== Splashes ==


== Notes ==


== Feedback notes ==


== Feedback Discords ==


== Navigation ==