Beta 1.10.0.4 is the second and final beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.10.0, released on February 6, 2019, which changes the texture of the smithing table and fixes bugs.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Smithing table

Changed texture to match the texture in Java Edition.


== Fixes ==
Fixed a crash that could occur when spawning near new villages on mobile devices.
Mason villagers now have trades.
Hills in tall birch forests now generate at the correct height again.
Scoreboards now work correctly with custom named entities.
Scripting documentation tweaks and fixes:
Removed extra spaces from the Scripting documentation to allow scripts to be copied and pasted more easily.
Adjusted scripting documentation to use lower case letters for position parameters in minecraft:pick_hit_result_changed.
Updated the scripting documentation to show how to better use initialize() function.
createEntity() documentation calls out the created entity type and identifier.
There is now documentation for the manifest file.
Tabs are now converted into 2 spaces when printing examples as HTML.
SpatialQuery documentation now mentions that the 3 optional parameters are all or nothing.
Fixed a bug with scripting level component documentation not generating.
Fixed a scripting crash that could occur when using SpawnParticleInWorld events.
Scripting isValidEntity now correctly checks for valid entities only.
Fixed incorrect results for hasComponent on some entity components.
Fixed an issue where terrain is often not adjusted to generated structures in villages, causing floating platforms.
Fixed an issue where redundant dirt blocks could generate inside village structures.
Fixed a crash that could occur when launching the game.
Fixed a crash that was preventing iOS players from accepting game invitations.
Ender dragon is no longer invisible when respawned. (MCPE-41377)
Lectern models now support higher resolution textures.
Custom entity spawn eggs now work correctly in dispensers. (MCPE-40408)
Custom entities can now be used with the [type=] command argument.
Fixed the pillager spawn egg texture when it is placed in an item frame. (MCPE-39530)
Players can no longer respawn with shields in their hands.
Shields now appear correctly when being rapidly raised and lowered in third person view.
Shields now always shake when blocking damage.
Activated shield now animates properly when holding a crossbow. (MCPE-41255)
Fixed a crash that could occur when spawning in a custom entity.
Fixed a z-fighting texture issue on the zombie horse mane.
Endermen no longer look like they are always holding something when attacking.
Fixed a crash that could occur when adding a resource pack with a missing pack icon.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when loading in some resource packs.
Baby mobs no longer briefly appear adult-sized when being leashed.
Worlds now appear in the correct order on Xbox One after restarting the game.
Breeding animals no longer spawns two baby mobs.
Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox One when copying worlds.
Fixed a bug that prevented items from being crafted from the recipe book if the all items option was toggled.
Fixed another issue that could cause the game to sometimes not load past the splash screen on some devices. (MCPE-35078)
The wandering trader llama no longer renders with incorrect textures. (MCPE-41162)


== References ==


== Navigation ==