Beta 1.13.0.18 is the eleventh and final beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on October 2, 2019, which fixes bugs.


== Fixes ==
Crashes

Fixed a crash that occurred when accepting the storage permission on Android.
Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that could occur when scrolling through languages in the Settings. (MCPE-52009)
Fixed a crash that could occur when using the character creator on Android. (MCPE-52474)
General

The "Beam Me Up" achievement can once again be unlocked.
Gameplay

Fixed players falling from the sky after riding an entity in Creative mode. (MCPE-52957)
Fixed players spawning in unexpected locations after roaming a world save to a different Xbox One.
Mobs

Zombies once again spawn in caves. (MCPE-52743)
Items

Carpets once again appear on the llama's inventory screen.
Crossbows no longer fire immediately after loading. (MCPE-52179)
Fixed the ability to discard damaged tools from the Creative inventory. (MCPE-52465)
Compasses and clocks once again animate on the hotbar. (MCPE-52901)
Armor can once again be equipped directly from the Creative inventory on touch screens. (MCPE-52413)
Frost Walker boots once again freeze water.
Graphical

The breaking animation once again appears on chests.
Fixed the player's head looking wrongly when sneaking. (MCPE-51181)
Fixed the player's arms not animating when swimming. (MCPE-49749)
Mob heads once again fit properly on players.
Fixed the crafting table icon not showing its grid on top in certain GUI scales.
Fixed several missing and broken textures in the inventory. (MCPE-52442)
Fixed some skins appearing with a white cape. (MCPE-52005)
Fixed armor not respecting extra layers on skins.
Fixed destroyed blocks leaving shadows.
User interface

Various fixes and loading time improvements to the character creator interface.
External servers once again appear on the Servers screen.
Fixed the inventory screens of some blocks not appearing on the first attempt after the block's state has changed, like hoppers and dispensers.
The Profile screen can now be accessed when playing split-screen.
The "Read More" button once again appears next to packs on the Global Resource menu.
Commands

The '/summon' command once again properly names entities, if defined.
Add-ons and script engine

Fixed spawn eggs not appearing in the Creative inventory for custom mobs.
Item held by scaled mobs are once again sized appropriately.
Using 'format_version' 1.2.0 no longer breaks the 'on_damage' component.
Triggering custom animations for entities is once again functional.
Using the 'transformation' component on 'xp_orb' once again removes the source entity.
The 'spawn_entity' component is now executed when an entity is being ridden.
Fixed the ender dragon not appearing correctly in some add-on packs.
Errors are once again listed on the pack manifest validation screen.


== References ==


== Navigation ==