Beta 1.19.30.20 (Android) or Preview 1.19.30.20 (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the first beta/Preview version for Bedrock Edition 1.19.30, released on August 4, 2022, which brought more parity from Java Edition, and fixes bugs.


== Changes ==


=== Technical ===
Actor Properties

Numerical actor properties (float and integer) will now always clamp their values into the range of values specified.
Add-Ons and Script Engine

minecraft:instant_despawn no longer affects players.
Commands

Command selector now gets the same position for the player that the command origin player position gets.


== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Upcoming Creator Features" and "GameTest Framework" experimental toggle.


=== Changes ===


==== Technical ====
Commands

The /execute if block command now displays integer values for block positions (MCPE-156285)
GameTest Framework

Vector
Fixed a bug where function length would return undefined
Added function lengthSquared- Returns the squared length of the vector
Added stackOverflow as a possible WatchdogTerminateReason for the beforeWatchdogTerminate event
IRawMessage - Interface object representing a message
rawtext : (string | IRawMessage)[] - (optional) A list of text objects used to build a message
text : string - (optional) A string containing plain text to display directly. Only valid when used as a sub member in a parent rawtext or with member
translate : string - (optional) String representing a translation identifier to translate text in the player's selected language
with : (string | IRawMessage)[] - (optional) A list of text object arguments used to fill values in the translate text. Ignored when translate is not present
say(string | IRawMessage) - Used to broadcast a message to all players
tell(string | IRawMessage) - Send a message to a player
Fixed a bug where Dynamic Properties would not persist when using worlds hosted on Bedrock Dedicated Server or Realms
Pack dependencies on native modules can be declared using the module name without the need to specify a UUID, using the “module_name” attribute. The module name matches the import statement (e.g., “mojang-minecraft”)
Removed mojang-gametest module version 0.1.0; packs using "mojang-gametest" specific APIs must be updated to use GameTest version 1.0.0-beta
The "mojang-gametest" module 1.0.0-beta requires "mojang-minecraft" module 1.0.0-beta
General

Removed usage of minecraft:unwalkable block component and added block creative group and category to the block description.


== Fixes ==
Vanilla Parity

Endermen no longer get angry at Creative players. (MCPE-42977)
Modified the fireball entity's collision box to match Java Edition.
The enchanting table now produces a sound when enchanting an item.
Amethyst blocks no longer produce sound when jumping off of them.
Deep Dark

Increased sculk shrieker and sculk sensor generation rates in deep dark and ancient cities to better match Java Edition. (MCPE-153525)
Melon Block

Fixed the bottom texture of the melon block to match the top texture. (MCPE-31035)
Mobs

Modified the cat's head position while sitting to match Java Edition. (MCPE-46668)
Fixed a bug causing leads to break with allays after the owner player changes dimensions. (MCPE-158955)
User Interface

The item stack popup animation will now only play when a new item is added to the stack. (MCPE-23995)
If a villager has a name tag, it is now displayed along with their trade tier. (MCPE-152644)
Fixed a UI bug where enchanted leather items would have parts of the texture not displaying the glint animation. (MCPE-98929)
Added new disconnection error messages to better highlight the area in which the disconnection occurred.
Spectator Mode (Experimental)

Endermen no longer become angry at players in Spectator Mode. (MCPE-156742)
Players in Spectator Mode can no longer interact with sculk sensors by swimming in water or lava. (MCPE-153879)
Players switching into Spectator Mode will unhook any fish hooks attached to them.
Players in Spectator mode can no longer be pushed by explosions. (MCPE-156687)
Powder Snow no longer emits particles when spectators move through it. (MCPE-153876)
Big dripleaf no longer tilts when touched by players in Spectator Mode. (MCPE-156686)
Players in Spectator Mode now keep their inventories and equipped items on death. (MCPE-156681)
Spectators can no longer attract mob's attention when holding their favorite food. (MCPE-153882)
The /testfor command can now target spectators. (MCPE-158042)
The Spectator game mode can no longer be entered via the /gamemode 6 command, only via /gamemode spectator.
Spectators using touch controls can no longer break boats and minecarts. (MCPE-158307)
Pufferfish no longer react to nearby spectators.
Blocks

Mud Brick Slab can now be placed as a top slab via commands. (MCPE-157852)
Gameplay

Piston's animation when extending and retracting is now smooth. (MCPE-155987)
Border Block

Border blocks should now prevent passage at all heights.
Items

Mangrove, crimson, and warped planks can now be used to repair shields. (MCPE-158940)
Marketplace

The "Cannot connect to Marketplace" error will no longer be erroneously read by the Text-To-Speech reader.
Fixed a bug where the text-to-speech feature would read the entire "My Content" page, both highlighted and non-highlighted items.
Goat

The goat's ram animation was modified to slowly lower their head when preparing to ram. (MCPE-129477)
Villagers

Fixed a bug that rarely caused the villager's bounding box to become desynced with the server when sleeping.
Dedicated Server

Added server property disable-custom-skins to block untrusted skins on a server wide level.
Stability and Performance

Fixed a bug causing an occasional crash when loading players in beds.
Villages

Raid bar no longer becomes stuck after breaking beds to cancel a raid. (MCPE-152851)


== References ==


== Navigation ==