1.19.50 is a minor update to Bedrock Edition released on November 29, 2022, which brought more parity with Java Edition, and fixed bugs.


== Additions ==


=== General ===
Settings

Added "Control Mode" menu to the touch settings.
This can be used to modify the selected control scheme, such as:
Joystick & tap to interact.
D-Pad & tap to interact.
Joystick & aim crosshair.

Experiments 

Added the "Next Major Update" experimental toggle.
Dressing Room

Added a new flow to introduce the new Minecraft Cast Characters and how to use said characters as one's appearance.


== Changes ==


=== Mobs ===
Villager

While playing tag, baby villagers will now run at a quicker speed that matches Java Edition.
Vex

Updated vex model and texture.


=== Gameplay ===
Spectator mode

Moved from an experimental toggle into the base game.


=== Command format ===
/execute

The updated /execute command syntax, more similar to Java Edition, is no longer behind the "Upcoming Creator Features" experimental toggle.


=== General ===
Experiments

Removed the 'Spectator Mode' toggle.
Touch Controls

Removed the action delay from attack and interact buttons.
When the joystick is unlocked, the draggable range has been changed to be the same as the when the joystick is locked.
In both modes, if auto-sprinting is enabled, it will start when the joystick is dragged slightly above the background. The auto-sprint will disengage if the joystick control is subsequently moved back into the joystick background area.
A tap gesture will now fire a charged crossbow. Previously it was necessary to hold the gesture for 400 milliseconds before the bolt would fire.


== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Next Major Update" experimental toggle.


=== Additions ===


==== Blocks ====
Bamboo Mosaics

A plank variant exclusive to the bamboo wood set.
Can be crafted with 2 bamboo slabs arranged in a vertical strip.
The bamboo mosaic has its own stair and slab variant.
Buttons, doors, fences, fence gates, planks, pressure plates, signs, slabs, stairs, and trapdoors

Added their bamboo variants.
Bamboo planks can be crafted by arranging 4 bamboo in a 22 format in the crafting grid.
Chiseled Bookshelves

Can be crafted with 6 planks and 3 wooden slabs.
Can store up to 6 books, books and quills, written books, and enchanted books.
Can interact with redstone comparators.
Hanging Signs

A more expensive version of normal signs, which can be crafted with 2 chains and 6 stripped logs, resulting 6 of them.
Can be hung up in the following ways:
Underneath a block that can provide support in the center.
When the hanging sign is placed underneath a full block, the chains will be on parallel sides of the sign.
When the hanging sign is placed underneath a non-full block, such as a fence, or when placed while sneaking, the chains will take on an upside-down v-shape.
Attached to the solid side of a block.
Attached to the side or underneath another hanging sign.
Cannot be placed directly on the ground without support from the side or above.
However, hanging signs that have a horizontal bar will not pop when the supporting block is removed.


==== Mobs ====
Camels

Can be equipped with a saddle and ridden by two players.
Spawn naturally in desert villages.
Can walk over fences.
Will randomly sit down.
While sitting, it is difficult to convince them to move.
Can either walk slowly or sprint quickly.
Can also dash forward but will lose stamina for a while.


==== Non-mob entities ====
Boats and boats with chests

Added bamboo rafts and bamboo rafts with chests.
Can be crafted with bamboo planks instead.
They function the same as ordinary boats, but have a unique look to them.


=== Changes ===


==== Blocks ====
Buttons

Added unique button click sound for wooden buttons to match Java Edition.
Doors, fence gates and trapdoors

Now use the same opening and closing sound effects as Java Edition.
Pressure Plates

Updated to have different pitches based on their behavior to match Java Edition.


==== Gameplay ====
Sound

Various wood types now have unique sounds when placed, broken, or walked on.
There are three sets of unique sounds: Overworld wood types, Nether wood types, and bamboo.


== Fixes ==
Stability / Performance

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that could occur when navigating down in the villager screen with the keyboard.
Fixed an issue where game would crash when ender dragon breath attack hadn't hit blocks or fell into the void (MCPE-161204).
Navigating through the recipe book when the player had items that contain mobs in their inventory (like bees in beehives) no longer causes significant drops in performance (MCPE-146462).
Reduced server lag with items going in and out of hoppers (MCPE-68796).
Fixed frame rate dropping when hovering over item slots on the Creative inventory screen (MCPE-162277).
Fixed a crash that would occur if Education Edition items were rendered without the Education Edition toggle turned on (MCPE-161587).
Fixed a crash that could occur when actors with a non-player owner went through end portals.
Fixed a crash that could occur when loading into some Marketplace worlds on low memory devices (MCPE-161866).
Gameplay

When stuck inside a block, players will now be pushed toward the nearest open area.
Maps corrupted by black pixels can now be repaired by revisiting corrupted areas. Previously affected maps can now be repaired by holding in main or off hand. (MCPE-162421)
Fixed a bug that could cause the player to teleport back to a portal after exiting it. (MCPE-157494)
Fixed a bug that could cause players to get stuck on the "Building Terrain" screen when changing dimensions. (MCPE-158215)
Fixed improper LevelChunk blending when upgrading pre-1.18 worlds. (MCPE-162480)
Fixed Xbox controller thumbstick deadzone and sensitivity. (MCPE-162847)
Mobs

While playing tag, baby villagers will now run at a quicker speed that matches Java Edition.
Increased enderman follow range from 32 to 64. (MCPE-35306)
Jump Boost now consistently affects mobs ridden by players. (MCPE-45823)
Slow Falling now consistently affects mobs ridden by players. (MCPE-126604)
Fixed bat resting location being offset when at negative world height.
Armor stands now drop their offhand item upon destruction. (MCPE-158228)
Fixed a bug that caused the ender dragon to not load if the world was saved and loaded while it was alive. (MCPE-156528)
Blocks

Wooden doors, iron doors, wooden trapdoors, iron trapdoors, and fence gates now use the same opening and closing sound effects as Java Edition.
Updated pressure plates to have different pitches based on their behavior to match Java Edition.
Added unique button click sound for wooden buttons to match Java Edition.
Crimson and warped block sets now have a unique set of sounds.
Chiseled and cut red sandstone now have smooth undersides. (MCPE-20006)
Projectiles landing on mud will no longer shake repeatedly. (MCPE-153744)
Amphibious mobs no longer have trouble pathfinding around mud blocks. (MCPE-153961)
Mud and soul sand block bounding boxes now matches their visual bounding boxes for when a player places the blocks. (MCPE-162252)
Lily pads now pop with sound and particles when run into by a boat. (MCPE-65138)
Most blocks destroyed from lack of support now have visual particles, audio effects, and cause vibration events.
Coral fans can no longer be placed on the side of slab blocks. (MCPE-116986)
Coral fans can now survive on top of solid transparent blocks like glass. (MCPE-112407)
Fixed a bug where placed light blocks were invisible even while selecting a light block.
Dirt path and farmland collision are now one pixel lower. (MCPE-12109)
Players now sink in soul Sand and mud blocks. (MCPE-154973)
Sugar cane will now break on next random tick when its water source is removed. (MCPE-162351)
Piston arms now extend more smoothly. (MCPE-155987)
Blocks attached to Pistons now move more smoothly. (MCPE-146597)
Huge fungus blocks will no longer replace partial blocks when growing from nylium. (MCPE-65661)
Fixed an issue where an entity at coordinate 0,0,0 prevented pressure plates from being placed. (MCPE-161377)
Fixed blocks flickering when moved by pistons. (MCPE-15268)
Fixed an issue where signs would not play a placement sound when placed. (MCPE-65423)
Bubble columns are now properly generated above underwater magma blocks.
Swimming above mud blocks no longer causes the screen to get blocked. (MCPE-153737)
Items

Freshly crafted tools and armor now work the first time they are used. (MCPE-161151)
Weapons, tools, and armor can now be dropped from the players inventory the first time after being renamed. (MCPE-162132)
Fixed issues with book & quill being not able to be signed and closed. (MCPE-163325)
Fixed a bug where fully charged items were lost when going through a portal. (MCPE-55279)
Using the anvil to enchant or fix items will no longer rename items unintentionally. (MCPE-154453)
Fixed a bug where slimes and magma cube could break shield durability every tick. (MCPE-119451)
Fixed a bug where pufferfish could break shield durability every tick. (MCPE-143689)
Touch Controls

Re-enabled the new stack splitting functionality for touch devices.
"Split Control" option will only appear in Classic control mode and only affect the Classic control scheme.
Fixed an issue where hotbar slots could not be touched in Crosshair and Touch control schemes in certain situations.
Scrolling the inventory screen is easier as the dwell time has been increased to 180 milliseconds (was 120 previously). The dwell time is the length of time an item must be held before a drag action begins.
Untangled the connections between "Lock Joystick", "Joystick Always Visible", and "Joystick Visible When Unused".
Added toggle "Delayed Block Breaking (Creative Only)" in Touch Settings to control this functionality.
Fixed an issue where double tapping touch control buttons can be difficult on high refresh rate screens. (MCPE-156351)
Improved the way that button presses and camera movements work in tandem in the new Touch Controls.
Action buttons now show up when in a boat while using Crosshair mode. (MCPE-159376)
Fixed the Dismount button in the new touch control schemes appearing blurry. (MCPE-156722)
Fixed an issue which prevented items from being discarded in the extended Creative Mode inventory by dropping them on another item. (MCPE-162124)
Fixed an issue with touch controls when swimming and charging a bow, crossbow, or trident no longer launch the weapon immediately. (MCPE-136625)
Fixed an issue where joystick gestures were stopped if your finger overlapped with the hotbar. (MCPE-159870)
Resolved an issue where players couldn't interact with the hotbar in some resource packs with the new touch controls. (MCPE-157748)
The sprint and descend buttons in Crosshair Mode now have the same color as other buttons. (MCPE-156740)
Resolved an issue where quickly tapping "Ascend" and "Descend" would cancel flying in the new touch controls. Going forward, double tapping "Descend" is how flying is cancelled. (MCPE-162240)
Status icons now follow the screen safe zone when in touch mode.
Adjusted status icons to form in one row across width of screen when in touch to account for new touch controls.
Removed the action delay from Attack and Interact buttons. (MCPE-158143)
When the joystick is unlocked, the draggable range has been changed to be the same as the when the joystick is locked. In both modes, if auto-sprinting is enabled, it will start when the joystick is dragged slightly above the background. The auto-sprint will disengage if the joystick control is subsequently moved back into the joystick background area.
A tap gesture will now fire a charged crossbow. Previously, it was necessary to hold the gesture for 400ms before the bolt would fire.
Fixed an issue where players couldn't drag/drop on the anvil screen.
Graphical

Applied ambient light to blocks moved by pistons. (MCPE-136928)
Mob shadows now render properly on Android devices using certain GPUs. (MCPE-155354)
Added D3D12 support for Intel Integrated/Dedicated Graphics for compatible drivers.
Realms

Shortened text when uploading worlds and add-ons so it fits in the dialog prompt.
You will no longer get an error message when joining a Realm that has been empty for several minutes.
User Interface

Added a new Mobile Data Blocked screen on Android/iOS/iPadOS when mobile data is available but disabled in-game and Wi-Fi is not connected.
Players can now rebind the copy coordinate keys with Full Keyboard Gameplay and the Enable Copy Coordinate UI settings enabled. (MCPE-163082)
Fixed a bug where the boss bar name would not update when the boss name changed until the bar was reloaded by the player.
Fixed a bug on the Pocket UI Inventory screen where items could not be dropped back into the inventory in Creative Mode.
Fixed a bug on the Pocket UI Inventory screen where the Craftable/All toggle could only be changed in the Search tab but not in any other tab.
On Xbox, camera movement with mouse no longer changes mouse position when the inventory screen is reopened. (MCPE-162890)
Text color for a selected item stack count is now white instead of yellow.
A warning now appears when the player is about to lose changes when moving away from the Create New World screen.
Changed the error handling of copying worlds to display a modal pop-up instead of a toast notification.
Fixed a bug causing the HUD to not rotate with the player's direction while riding in a Boat in VR.
Changed the color of the description text for the Allow mobile data for online play option to be more readable. (MCPE-162459)
Fixed a contrast issue of the little arrow in dropdown components on hover, the unselected toggle components and the toggle/sliders in chat settings.
Spectator Mode

Open container, command block, or structure block screens now close when players enter Spectator mode.
Spectator Mode now appears on the list of Personal Game Modes in Settings. (MCPE-156688)
Allays no longer throw items to spectators. (MCPE-162873)


== References ==


== Navigation ==