Beta 1.5.0.0 is the first beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.5.0, released on April 25, 2018, which makes several changes and fixes bugs.


== Additions ==


=== Gameplay ===
Enchantments

Riptide
Added an animation when using Riptide in first person perspective.


== Changes ==


=== Items ===
Nautilus shells

Are no longer only available through Experimental gameplay.
Tridents

Can now be enchanted with Mending and Unbreaking.


=== Mobs ===
Dolphins

Can now be given raw fish or raw salmon and will swim towards the nearest underwater ruin or shipwreck.
Drowned

Now spawn with a chance of holding a nautilus shell.
Are no longer only available through Experimental gameplay.
Husks

Husks that have sunk in water now transform into zombies and zombies will transform into drowned.
Skeleton horses

Can now be ridden underwater.
Skeletons and strays 

Now switch from ranged to melee attacks while underwater and switch back when out of water.
Undead mobs

Now sink in water and can walk on the bottom.


=== Gameplay ===
Boats

Changed the steering when using keyboard and mouse by pressing W to move forward and S to reverse.
Enchantments

Riptide
Updated the spin texture.
Swimming

Improved the player's swimming at the surface of water.


== Fixes ==
Fixed several of the top crashes that occurred during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that occurred when playing Truffletop Town and dying while using elytra and fireworks.
Pick Block will now work in Survival mode.
Players can once again resurface after tapping "fly down" arrow while swimming with touch controls.
Breaking coral with a pickaxe will now drop dead coral and will drop living coral when using Silk Touch.
Fixed dolphins getting stuck in their idle animation.
Firework rockets now appear in the recipe book when being searched for in Survival.
Fixed fish not rendering when moving out of render distance and back.
/clear will now clear items properly.
The first mouse click after re-mapping an action to a key is now recognized.
Improved messaging when there are no old worlds to sync.
Leads and balloons can no longer be attached to horses being ridden by players.
Enchantment names can now be seen on the enchantment table screen with Pocket UI when using keyboard and mouse.
Fixed helmets being visible after being destroyed by taking damage from a mob.
Resource and behavior packs are now properly enabled/disabled on Realms when restoring backups or replacing worlds.
Changes made to the 'Trust Player Permissions' setting during world creation will now persist after loading into the world.
Fixed some visual issues with kelp.
Ladders no longer appear as invisible blocks with collision when placed using '/setblock'.
The surface of water can now be seen when viewing from behind glass underwater.
Sneaking and jumping into water no longer prevents jumping or swimming upwards.
Double doors once again display correctly.
Fixed the texture of dark prismarine Stairs.
Banners are no longer consumed from the inventory when placed in Creative mode.
Pick Block will now pick the proper variant of buttons and pressure plates.
Glass once again renders properly at further distances and certain angles.
Zombie villagers created during world generation are no longer super fast.
It's once again possible to eat raw fish.
It is no longer possible to refill breath by swimming against ice.
Fixed a redundant gray line at the top of the drowned's legs.
The trident will now be thrown the direction the cursor is pointing when playing in VR.
Pressing the 'Default Settings' button will now only affect the control scheme that is selected.
Personal game mode is now fully applied in Game Settings when switched from Survival to Creative.
The ender dragon will no longer get stuck if the player moves too far away.
Bone meal is now depleted when used on Kelp from a dispenser.
Dropped items can once again pass under top slabs.
Image thumbnails and game modes for worlds and world templates will now appear when searching on the Storage screen.
The book on the enchantment table screen no longer overlaps the suggested enchantment's name.
Tall birch trees will once again generate in mutated birch forests.
Mobs will no longer rotate their heads 360 degrees while in boats.
Fixed water not rendering when viewed at certain angles near the surface.
Splash water bottles will now keep dolphins hydrated on land.
A controller tooltip will now appear when it is possible to place blocks underwater.
All overhangs and floating islands will once again generate with grass or snow under them.
Bryce mesa biomes will now generate correctly.
Fixed entering a minecart from another minecart.
Players will no longer spawn on land in the swimming animation after swimming near land and exiting a world.
Blocks can no longer be placed with no other block to support it when sprint-flying underwater in Creative mode.
Riptide can no longer be used while riding a mount.
Icebergs, seagrass, and kelp can no longer replace blocks of an ocean monument when generated.
Fixed the glint on enchanted tridents in first person.
Fixed the rotation of tridents while charging in first person.


== References ==


== Navigation ==