Beta 1.12.0.9 is the fifth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.12.0, released on June 3, 2019, which adds rarity tooltips and fixes bugs.


== Changes ==


=== General ===
Add-ons

Removing a timer component and adding a new one should no longer have the new timer inherit the old timer's time value.
Included a fix to allow for JSON content that refers to blocks with "tile." at the front of it to be looked up successfully.
Rarity

Golden apples and enchanted golden apples now have rarity tooltips.


== Fixes ==
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that could occur on Nintendo Switch when the game was saving or loading. (MCPE-45862)
Fixed a Marketplace issue that could result in the game getting stuck or crashing when loading in content.
Fixed a crash that could occur when signing in to Xbox Live.
Fixed a crash that could occur when breaking a bell. (MCPE-46636)
Fixed an issue that could cause the game to freeze or stop responding. (MCPE-46654)
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when changing skins.
Fixed a crash that could occur when loading in a roaming skin.
Fixed a crash that could occur on Switch.
Performance

Made further performance improvements when opening inventory screens. (MCPE-27167)
Made some further performance improvements around villages and job sites.
Several other performance improvements, included some related to mob AI pathfinding.
General

The Marketplace search screen now displays the proper pack icons.
Fixed Marketplace sale items not showing the discount percentage.
Marketplace sale items no longer change size when hovered over.
The "New" tag is now properly removed from a Marketplace collection once it has been viewed.
Replaced some missing Marketplace screenshots.
Made improvements to the patch notes to make sure the correct ones show up after an update.
Fixed an issue with skins not loading in correctly after restarting the game.
Several fixes and improvements related to game invites:
Fixed a bug that would prevent a player from creating or loading a world, or cause a crash, after attempting and failing to join another world via an invite.
Fixed an issue that prevented the player from joining a world or server after receiving an invite.
Players should no longer see the "Unable to connect to World" message when trying to enter own Realm or any area from Friends tab after failed attempt to join a game.
Fixed a loading screen issue that could prevent split-screen players on console from joining the world correctly.
Gameplay

Fixed an issue that was preventing players from feeding hay bales to animals in order to breed them.
Players now respawn at the correct spawn point when they die.
Players can now respawn successfully without having to exit and re-join the world first.
Mobs

Iron golems now sway when walking.
Graphical

Fixed the sitting model for cats that were previously tamed ocelots. (MCPE-41929)
Enchanted armor and bows now show their shimmering effect again. (MCPE-45750)
User interface

Fixed a controller bug when navigating through the Marketplace
The crafting grid no longer clears when the gamepad cursor moves to any non-recipe book slot
Add-ons and scripting engine

Fixed an issue that was preventing custom blocks from registering successfully.
Fixed an issue with custom items and blocks not requiring the namespace for slash commands.


== References ==


== Navigation ==