1.16.220 is a minor update to Bedrock Edition released on April 6, 2021, which fixes bugs.
Development phases contained some of the Caves & Cliffs features through experimental gameplay, which were not included in the full release but became part of 1.17.0 and 1.18.0.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Signs

Sign text's color can now be changed with any of the 16 dyes to match Java Edition.


=== Technical ===
Map making and add-ons

Renamed all references of Actor to Entity.
Renamed 'BlockPos' to 'BlockLocation'.
Added 'startSequence' to GameTest, which allows finer control over advanced test sequences.
GameTest sequence callbacks no longer take test as a parameter as the initial test object now lives as long as the whole test.
Updated Behavior Packs to require explicit module dependencies when using other native modules.
GameTest framework

Updated Blocks shorthand helpers to be camel case.
Updated Blocks shorthand to only include vanilla blocks.
Added Blocks.get to fetch a block and return null if it doesn't exist.
Added BlockStates to enumerate all block states.
Added setState to Block to update its block state.
Added BlockPos class.
Added ItemStack class GameTest module.
Added Tags to enumerate all built-in tags.
Updated all methods that took x, y, z position to take a BlockPos.
Exposed padding when registering game test.
Movement prediction

Fixed projectiles on third-party servers ignoring server movement packets.
The server adjusts the player's fall distance to take into account the client player's position when a player movement correction or anomaly is detected.
Network packets

Changed cipher algorithm to AESGCM256 for UDP stream.


== Fixes ==
Performance / stability

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay
Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to rename a map on an anvil while its second slot was occupied (MCPE-112905)
Fixed a crash when entering a Nether Portal and throwing a Bottle o' Enchanting at the same time (MCPE-114793)
Improved input latency on Windows 10 when VSYNC is enabled (MCPE-98861)
Gameplay

Fixed fog in Nether biomes not rendering properly in some Resource Packs (MCPE-111680)
Players with Visitor permissions now drop inventory on death (MCPE-47563)
Mobs

Fixed Drowned holding tridents backwards during attack (MCPE-118213)
Drowned now swing their arms when throwing tridents
Zombie, Zombie Villager, Husk, Pillager, and Vindicator now use correct bone to attach shields (MCPE-98606)
Mobs that pick up shields now place it in their off-hand
Non-persistent mobs no longer despawn immediately after loading into the Nether
Blocks

Projectiles now pass through Structure Void blocks (MCPE-103579)
Improved placement rules for placing blocks on sides of stairs, slabs, and Top Snow blocks
Pistons and Sticky Pistons no longer appear black when Outline Selection is disabled (MCPE-53858)
Accessibility

Enabled screen narration with touch input on the new achievements screen
Fixed a bug where the screen reader didn't read out default controller focus and checkbox state on the 'Online Play is not Rated' prompt
Fixed a bug where the screen reader would read the wrong text while using VR
User interface

Enabled "Find Friends" button on Xbox
Controllers are now able to select the "Button Mode" toggle in the Advanced Settings NPC screen in the Jurassic World pack (MCPE-66446)
The "Results" field for search within the marketplace inventory now updates properly between different sections within the screen
The death screen is now visible when behind full-screen effects (on fire, standing in a portal, etc.) while playing in VR
Fixed translucent rendering of occluded UI elements, also when viewing menus near blocks while playing in VR
Selecting the featured offer on the profile screen now properly redirects to the complete list of featured offers
Made the Sign In button text fit the button in Portuguese-BR
The Storage menu on now uses lighter text color
Fixed an issue where button textures weren't scaled properly when applying Resource Packs
Enabled navigating to the Back button using only keyboard in some screens where it was not possible
Commands 

Entity selectors no longer allow self-selection with cheats disabled (MCPE-92635)
The '/clear' command now applies the correct "data" argument for the sapling item (MCPE-117889)
Command blocks in a command block chain now list the correct amount of ticking areas when a new ticking area is added before listing
Title command no longer duplicates % symbols in message (MCPE-51033)
Using teleport with the execute command now uses the dimension of the origin for its operations (MCPE-44104)
Character creator 

Steves Pants no longer change the color of the bottom of feet when no footwear is equipped
Fixed other players appearing as Steve in multiplayer
Changing skins while in split-screen now properly saves for all local players and update properly for remote players
Alexs shirt no longer looks corrupted when equipped with different pants
"Hooray!" emote now displays in the emotes section if already owned (MCPE-111165).
Technical 

Identifiers within "render_controllers" are now considered content errors if there is no render controller matching that name
Entity json before version 1.16.100 no longer gives a content error for the deprecated field "minecraft:foot_size"
modified condition in 'trident.animation_controllers.json' to allow mobs to enter  'wield_third_person_raise' (MCPE-118213)
Fixed an issue where loading into a world would cause continuous MoLang errors around "unhandled request for unknown variable"
A black screen no longer covers the player icon in the pause menu in some worlds. Content creators no longer need to override both focus_border_frame.png and pause_screen_border.png for correct behavior
Items can now have the "transparentattachable" tag applied to make attachable items not render for the player wearing them in the first person perspective
Fixed an issue where V2 Villagers were not properly updating their MoLang variables on initialization.
Fixed issue where previous failed GameTest markers still show up in new worlds.


== References ==


== Navigation ==