1.10.0, the release of the Texture Update and the third experimental release for Village & Pillage, is a major update to Bedrock Edition released on March 19, 2019. It adds some more features of Village & Pillage that were not added in either 1.8.0 or 1.9.0, such as shields, pillager outposts, new types of villagers, new textures and more.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
Composters

Currently have no functionality.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Campfires

Currently have no functionality.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Jigsaw blocks

Currently have no functionality, and can only be obtained via an inventory editor.
Lecterns

Placing a book and quill or written book on the lectern allows multiple players to read it together.
A book and quill can be read, but not edited when placed on a lectern.
Looms

Used to easily make patterns for banners.
Stonecutters

New stonecutters are only available through Experimental Gameplay.
Still have no functionality.
Old stonecutters are still available via an inventory editor.
Sweet berry bushes

Can be found in Taiga and Snowy Taiga biomes.
Can be planted from sweet berries.
Have 4 growth stages.
Drop 2-3 sweet berries when harvested.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.


=== Items ===
Banner patterns

Made with the Loom.
Can be added to banners to apply designs.
6 types of banner patterns: Creeper Charge, Flower Charge, Skull Charge, Thing, Field Masoned, and Bordure Indented.
Spawn eggs

Added illager beast and wandering trader spawn eggs, available through Experimental Gameplay.
Sweet berries

Collected from sweet berry bushes.
Can be eaten or planted into bushes.
Can be planted into the ground and grown into sweet berry bushes.
Shields

New tool that can be used to block most incoming attacks.
Sneaking or mounting a mob activates the shield when equipped in either hand.
Crafted with 6 planks and 1 iron ingot.


=== Mobs ===
Wandering traders

A type of villager that appears at a village's gathering site periodically and stays for a period of 2–3 in-game days (40–60 minutes of real-life time). This trader offers items from a wide variety of different biomes, random dyes, and other rare materials.
Accompanied by two custom llamas.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Illager beasts

Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Currently only have the basic AI.
Drop a saddle when killed.
Cat

Added a new skin: Jellie, the community cat contest winner.


=== World generation ===
Pillager outposts

Generate in the same biomes as villages, and pillagers respawn around the tower.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Can generate with tall foundation.
Generate with black banners, instead of illager banners.


=== Gameplay ===
Achievements

Added a new achievement:
Fruit on the Loom - Make a banner using an Enchanted Apple Stencil (20G)


=== Commands ===
/permission


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Barrels

Still under Experimental Gameplay and cannot be opened.
Added crafting recipe.
Bells

Still under Experimental Gameplay.
Improved and added placement features.
Blast furnaces and smokers

Still under Experimental Gameplay.
Added crafting recipe.
Cartography tables

Still under Experimental Gameplay.
Added crafting recipe.
Chorus flowers

Now break when shot with an arrow.
Crops

Now have placement sounds.
Dead bushes

Can now be used as fuel.
Dispensers

Dispensers with shears in them can now shear sheep.
Grindstones

Still under Experimental Gameplay.
Added crafting recipe.
Updated texture.
Lanterns

Are no longer only available through Experimental Gameplay.
Can now be properly attached to the bottom or top of blocks.
Now have animated textures.
Added crafting recipe.
Leaves

Now have a chance to drop 0–2 sticks when decaying.
Logs and stripped logs

Have been renamed from "Wood" and "Stripped Wood".
Smithing tables

Still under Experimental Gameplay.
Updated texture.
Wet sponges

Now dry out immediately when placed in the Nether.
Wood and stripped wood

A log block with the bark texture on all 6 sides.
Are no longer unused, and can now be crafted with 4 logs or stripped logs.
White carpets and undyed glass panes

Can now be dyed directly in the crafting table.


=== Items ===
Beetroot soup and Rabbit stew

Now have shapeless crafting recipes.
Crossbows

Are no longer only available through Experimental Gameplay.


=== Mobs ===
Cats

Feeding cats raw cod or raw salmon now replenishes their health.
Creepers

Now have a chance to drop a music disc when killed by a stray, as well as a skeleton.
JSON

Mob events and behavior can now be scheduled using JSON.
Pillagers

Are no longer only available through Experimental Gameplay.
Added new sounds. (MCPE-39111).
Villagers

Have been split into two mobs:
New villagers spawn in new villages.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Old villagers still spawn in igloo basements.
New villager behavior:
Implemented some of the new villager schedule behaviors.
Implemented new villager sleep behaviors.
Villagers may now wander to the village outskirts.
Villagers attempt to find a door when it rains during the day, but navigate to their bed at night.
Updated and improved pathfinding.
Villagers now have a visual-based trading system, and hold up the item they wish to trade.
Villagers have new clothing to indicate their level, profession, and biome.
Villagers now mingle together around gathering sites in the village.
Librarians inspect bookshelves.
Villagers can switch professions depending on the job site blocks available in the village.
Villagers now interact with beds and corresponding job site blocks.
Added mason, green-coated (nitwit), and unemployed (no-overlay) villager professions.
Zombie villagers

Split into 2 different mobs
New zombie villagers have biome-specific and profession skin layers.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Old zombie villagers still spawn in igloo basements.


=== World generation ===
Villages

Have a new look, differing per biome.
Added village job sites and gathering sites.
Number of houses depends on beds.
Taiga villages are now more common.
Removed zombie villages, due to new village changes.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Can be located with both /locate village and /locate newvillage. /locate village is not always guaranteed to locate a village, while /locate newvillage always point to villages.
No longer generate in Old world type.
Meeting points generate with various bell types.
Job and gathering sites, that villagers mingle around together, generate in villages.
Job sites can be built by players by placing job site blocks in village boundaries.
Strongholds

Most strongholds no longer generate under village wells - they now generate under village meeting points.
Available through Experimental Gameplay.
Reduced the chance of strongholds generating under villages.
Igloo

Now always generate with a red bed, regardless of the biome.


=== General ===
Texture Update

The new vanilla textures are now set as the default pack.
Data-driven animation

Refactored the animation system to support hierarchical animation, and treat animations and animation controllers as 'animations'.
Updated JSON with new animation support, upgraded schema for actor definition, and included upgrades for animation controllers and actor definitions.
Converted sheep and pigs to the new animation system.
Move locators to bones.
Blend state transitions.
Removed cod lead locator.
Renamed ActorAnimation to ActorSkeletalAnimation.
Initial poly mesh support.
Added TextureMesh geometry.
Flipping data-driven entities test to enable new entities to use bind_pose_rotation.
Events now have defined data objects containing all event data.
Added new villager animations.
Data-driven models

Added default parenting to the evoker nose, in line with over villager-derived mobs.
Entity scripting function

Is no longer behind Experimental Gameplay.
Help

Pressing help button links to the relevant how to play section.
Updated the how to play section.
Particles

Can now be edited using standard JSON formatting.
Renamed some particles include prefix test_ to example_.
Removed test_mule and test_sphere.
Permissions

Improvements to the operator status and permission settings, with the added option to enable cheats or not.
Resource packs

Are now separate from world templates and can be updated independently in existing worlds.
Scripting system

Players without scripting enabled now see an appropriate message if they try and join an incompatible server that has scripting enabled.
Updating a player's position with scripting now correctly syncs with the player.
Creating actors via script now avoids the spawning logic.
This prevents hard-coded logic like ocelots spawning along with baby ocelots.
Improved the message wording for players who get disconnected due to unsupported scripts.
Allow events to fire without a defined event data object.
Renamed Views to Actor/Entity Queries.
Added sound events to the scripting API.
Add Event Data to load_ui.
Custom UIs can now be made like regular in-game UI screens.
Added 'Global Objects' to the scripting API.
Refactored JavaScript object registration.
Added the ability to enable and disable scripting error and warning logging.


== Fixes ==
Crashes/performance

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed several crashes that could occur when loading the game.
Fixed several crashes that could occur when connecting to realms.
Fixed a crash that could occur when repeatedly attempting to cancel joining a multiplayer game.
Fixed a crash that could occur when rejoining the game in the End dimension.
Fixed a crash that could occur when entering a portal on some servers.
Resource packs that are nested in an extra folder no longer cause the game to crash.
Fixed a crash that could occur when adding a resource pack with a missing pack icon.
Stacking slabs to make a double slab no longer crashes the game.
Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox One if a player was not signed in correctly.
Fixed a crash that could occur when closing a world and reentering it on Xbox One.
Fixed a crash that could occur when using a jukebox on Nintendo Switch.
Fixed a crash that could occur when downloading or copying a large world on Nintendo Switch.
Fixed a crash when trying to launch the marketplace packs "City Cars" and "Mineville Film Studios" on mobile devices.
Fixed a crash that could happen after running scripts for a long period of time.
Fixed a crash that could occur when loading large world templates.
Optimized particles to improve performance.
Looping UI animations no longer increase memory usage over time.
Removing ticking areas from the game now correctly frees up used memory.
Fixed a scripting crash that could occur when using 'SpawnParticleInWorld' events.
General

Fixed another issue that could cause the game to sometimes not load past the Minecraft splash screen on some devices. (MCPE-35078)
Players are now informed if they are disconnected from Xbox Live when the Xbox One console is resumed from standby.
Various fixes and improvements to the Marketplace sorting and search results.
Fixed an issue on Xbox One that would disable LAN games when the player did not have multiplayer permissions.
Fixed a bug with converted worlds on Nintendo Switch that prevented cross-platform multiplayer. (MCPE-34641)
Gameplay

Players can once again travel through End gateway portals without suffocating and no longer encounter world loading issues as a result. (MCPE-41533, MCPE-40538)
Player position is now accurately saved when exiting and rejoining a world.
Lightning no longer has a downward area of effect when hitting blocks, so no longer strike mobs sheltering underneath blocks.
The descend button now works correctly when underwater and using touch controls.
Fixed a bug where players could respawn some distance away from their beds. (MCPE-39261)
Fixed a bug where lava could hurt a player through block corners. (MCPE-37726)
The re-center button on Minecraft VR has been mapped to Y now instead of X.
Players using Oculus Rift can no longer fly in Survival mode after swimming. (MCPE-39833)
World generation

Trapdoors in shipwrecks are now correctly rotated.
Snow layers generate around grass and flowers again in snow biomes. (MCPE-38018)
Strongholds now generate with the correct stair variants again. (MCPE-39380)
Mutated birch forest biomes now generate with extra tall birch trees again. (MCPE-29698)
The correct amount of white terracotta now generates in mesa biomes.
Mobs

Reduced the number of drowned mobs that can spawn in an area. (MCPE-34032)
Passive mobs now spawn on the correct block types. (MCPE-39727)
Turtles no longer levitate above the ground.
Damage cooldown no longer hinders other mob attacks.
Wither skeletons and vex mobs can now be renamed with nametags. (MCPE-20701)
Fixed the pathfinding for zombies chasing villagers inside buildings. (MCPE-37424)
Fixed the wither's ranged and swoop attacks. (MCPE-39773)
Skeletons once again attack iron golems.
Cats are no longer tempted by food when they are too far from the player.
Fixed an issue with the sword held by the vex mob.
Fixed sleep goal so mobs can get in beds that have blocks on the sides.
Mobs can no longer destroy paintings if Mob Griefing is disabled. (MCPE-38916)
Blocks

Bamboo saplings no longer destroy blocks above them as they grow. (MCPE-39854)
'Monster Egg' blocks are now named 'Infested' blocks to match Java Edition.
Infested bricks mined with silk touch now drop as its non-infested variant.
It is now possible to climb through snow layers placed on top of scaffolding. (MCPE-39324)
Hanging banners no longer show as floor standing banner variants. (MCPE-39507)
Scaffolding no longer gets left hanging unsupported when being placed rapidly. (MCPE-38338)
Horizontal scaffolding extensions can now be placed over non-solid blocks correctly. (MCPE-39296)
Fixed a bug where kelp would grow in horizontal flowing water. (MCPE-37155)
Items

Items can no longer be duplicated in the crafting grid. (MCPE-40253)
Fixed an exploit that allowed players to gain unlimited items from the recipe book. (MCPE-41905)
The new dye types can now be used to dye shulker mobs. (MCPE-40279)
Graphical

Players on split-screen no longer have limited visibility underwater. (MCPE-39539)
Fixed a bug that could cause missing textures if the player suspended the game while it is still loading.
Fixed an issue that could cause lighting issues in chunks when flying around.
Pandas eating bamboo now show correctly colored food particles. (MCPE-38285)
Food held by pandas is now sized, positioned, and textured correctly. (MCPE-39061)
Upside-down shulkers now have the correct opening animation. (MCPE-40110)
Graphics no longer become corrupted when disabling texel anti-aliasing on Nintendo Switch. (MCPE-34820)
Colored beacon beam textures no longer appear compressed.
Mobs no longer spawn with heart particles.
Weapons held by armor stands are now the correct size. (MCPE-39064)
Fixed skeleton melee attack animation.
Firework stars no longer appear black in the Creative inventory.
Fixed animations for cow and parrot mobs.
Ender dragon attacks now show a particle trail.
Cornflowers now render correctly in item frames.
Existing armor stands no longer turn white.
Fixed the spider leg animation in the Dwarven Mining Company marketplace map.
Fixed wither skeleton model geometry issue that was affecting some Marketplace content.
Fixed the head rotation of pigmen when non-standard texture packs are used. (MCPE-40629)
User interface

Menu buttons no longer stay highlighted after being selected (MCPE-37640)
Worlds no longer show singleplayer only warning message when multiplayer is enabled (MCPE-39194)
Texture packs applied to a freshly created world are now displayed in the active list
Global resource packs no longer show in the active packs list if they are not applied to a specific world
The 'Unlock Template World Options' popup no longer has a placeholder message
Fixed an issue with the black and pink missing texture icon that would sometimes appear in the marketplace
Players are prompted to redownload packs if they have been applied to a world but removed from the cache
Players who are disconnected while downloading a multiplayer pack no longer get stuck on the saving world screen
Fixed an issue that could cause the player to get stuck on the 'Converting World' screen if the game is suspended
Enabling 'Touch only affects the hotbar' on Nintendo Switch now works as expected: (MCPE-38614)
Controller sensitivity setting (touching the screen no longer interferes with controller movement)​.
Removed increased build distance in creative including place/mine tooltips​.
When the last hotbar slot selected, touching the screen no longer switches to 8th slot.
Fixed the ability to unblock players from Realms on the members list for pages two and above.
Commands

Giving a cobblestone wall variant with commands no longer crashes the game. (MCPE-41657)
Chest minecarts now drop their contents if destroyed with the /kill command.
Multiple commands run from Functions now run from the correct point of execution. (MCPE-38983, MCPE-39785)
Players no longer receive command feedback when cheats are disabled. (MCPE-39590)
Fixed an issue related to scoreboard not showing the correct entries.
Using scoreboard selectors no longer adds extra characters to player names.
Scoreboards now work correctly with custom-named entities.
Scoreboard data is now saved more accurately when exiting a world.
Various fixes and improvements to the randomTickSpeed function.
Add-ons / script engine

Renamed blocks in resource packs now keep their custom names.
Packs missing 'experimental_custom_ui' don't allow loading UI anymore.
Script queries no longer show error messages when detecting dropped item entities. (MCPE-40437)
'minecraft:look_at' component now has consistent naming between scripting and JSON.
The scripting event 'entity_created' now fires correctly.
Fixed an issue with the scripting event 'isValidEntity' not working as expected.
Fixed the 'damage_sensor' scripting component that was not working as expected.
Scripting can now be used to attach particles to mobs correctly.
Fixed issue of region filters not working if inside a custom spawn event.
Renamed the 'player_attacked_actor' scripting event to 'player_attacked_entity'.
Scripting 'isValidEntity' now correctly checks for valid entities only.
Fixed incorrect results for 'hasComponent' on some entity components.


== Videos ==


== Trivia ==
With only two beta versions released for it, 1.10.0 has the least number of beta versions across all major Bedrock Edition updates.


== See also ==
Java Edition 1.14
PlayStation 4 Edition 1.90
Education Edition 1.12


== References ==


== Navigation ==