Minecraft: Bedrock Edition (just Minecraft on most platforms and in-game) is the multi-platform edition of Minecraft developed by Mojang Studios, Xbox Game Studios, and SkyBox Labs and based on the Bedrock codebase. Bedrock Edition was released on September 20, 2017 with the version 1.2.0 as a continuation of Pocket Edition.


== Bedrock codebase ==
The term "Bedrock Edition" originates from the Bedrock codebase, which was created in the C++ programming language to run on platforms that cannot support Java. Code was added to accommodate differences in the target platforms for such facilities as networking and storage access, though most of the code is used on every platform. This common core of functionality is called the "Bedrock Engine".
The codebase resides within a software system that manages the pieces of code and tracks their evolution, known as a version control system. This allows the codebase to host not only the current version but all past versions, the standalone Bedrock Dedicated Server (BDS) versions, and several Beta versions simultaneously with no conflicts. 
Target platform builds are created individually, then transmitted to the platform's app store. Most stores have their own compliance requirements and subject the incoming edition to a series of certification tests before making it available for download. Xbox Game Studios attempts to synchronize availability across stores, but the certification process is not under their control and can delay an edition's availability on a certain platform, especially if it fails certification and has to go back to the developers for a fix.
Bedrock code is used for Minecraft Education, China Edition, Minecraft Legends, and Minecraft Dungeons, as well as the discontinued Pi Edition, New Nintendo 3DS Edition, and Minecraft Earth.


== Nomenclature ==
Up until June 7, 2022, the name "Bedrock Edition" was not the official name of any edition of the game. Starting with the Better Together Update, all Bedrock editions of Minecraft have been named simply Minecraft. Before then, they each had a subtitle identifying the target platform, including Pocket Edition (for all mobile platforms), Windows 10 Edition, Gear VR Edition, and Fire TV Edition. The earliest of these was Pocket Edition, also known as "MCPE" or "PE", and these names were (and still are) sometimes used to refer to all the Bedrock editions, possibly even including those that were introduced after the renaming occurred.
The renaming of the Bedrock editions to Minecraft with no "Edition" subtitles created confusion in the community for several reasons: 

This name had until then referred to the original Java version of the game, now known as Java Edition, which is not Bedrock Edition. The Java version was renamed to Minecraft: Java Edition at the same time the Bedrock editions were renamed to Minecraft, so for a while any use of the name was ambiguous.
Although officially named just Minecraft, the game is marketed as Minecraft for Windows, Minecraft for Android, Minecraft for iOS, Minecraft for Xbox, Minecraft for Nintendo Switch, and Minecraft for PlayStation 4. These names are also visible for the app itself, but not in-game.
The term "Minecraft" was (and still is) also commonly used to refer to the game in general.
Together, these complications made the official name Minecraft useless for referring to the Bedrock editions collectively. The editors of the Minecraft Wiki, however, needed such a term in order to describe the functioning of the Bedrock Engine across all editions, so despite there not being a real Bedrock Edition, the wiki chose to use this as a term of art, based on the internal name of the codebase. Subsequently, the community adopted it as well, and it is now the de facto standard term for referring to all the Bedrock editions collectively. Mojang Studios employees have also used the term "Bedrock Edition" to refer to said edition in news articles.
Since June 7, 2022, both Java Edition for PC and Bedrock Edition for Windows are sold under one bundle, titled Minecraft: Java & Bedrock Edition for PC, marking the first official use of "Bedrock Edition" as a subtitle in any Bedrock editions. On September 10, 2024, the Minecraft Launcher update, Launcher 3.0.13, changed the previous naming of Minecraft for Windows to Minecraft: Bedrock Edition.


== Gameplay ==

The objective of the game remains the same as in Java Edition, where players can build virtual realities in a sandbox-like environment. Like them, Bedrock Edition has survival elements such as hunger and brewing, and the Nether and End dimensions. The multiplayer mode is cross-platform compatible between all supported devices.
Bedrock Edition differs from Java Edition and Legacy Console Edition in a variety of ways, such as more saturated graphics, optimized performance, some exclusive items, and an official add-on system. The HUD and other elements vary for each relevant device. Players can interact with the game via a keyboard and mouse, touchscreen, or gamepad. 
Differences from Java Edition include: 

The game is optimized for different platforms, resulting in some user interface, visual, and gameplay differences. There are also unintended parity issues.
In addition to LAN worlds, Realms, or external servers, the game allows multiplayer connections through the Xbox social system.
Unlike in Java Edition, players use their Xbox gamertag as username and profile data is synchronized online.
A list of partnered featured servers, offering predefined multiplayer minigames in a Minecraft setting, is also provided.
The Marketplace is an in-game store with custom content, such as add-ons, skin packs, and worlds, from both official and partnered creators.
Some features of Bedrock Edition are available only on certain platforms. 

Importing worlds, packs, and templates is supported only on Windows, Android, iOS and iPadOS.
Exporting worlds and importing and exporting structures are only supported on Windows.
Joining servers through IP isn't supported by Xbox, Nintendo Switch, or PlayStation.


=== System requirements ===

Some devices below these specifications have been known to work fine either with or without custom ROM images, kernels, and overclocking of the CPU. The MSM7227 CPU is not supported due to its lack of a floating-point unit. The NVIDIA Tegra 2 processor is also not supported because it lacks support for NEON.


== Development ==

Planned versions
Mentioned features
Unused features
Removed features
Development versions
Exclusive features


=== Release ===
A video of an early prototype was released on X (formerly Twitter), showing the game on the Xperia PLAY. The Alpha version was later released and was released for different platforms on October 7, 2011. The non-exclusive version was going to be released on September 29 for Android, but several severe bugs needed to be fixed; the release was delayed until October 7.
A version for iOS devices was confirmed to be released before 2012 in an interview with Mojang Studios and was subsequently released on November 17, 2011.


=== Alpha ===

After the initial releases for Android and iOS, updates were released in parallel, with the same features being added for both platforms. During the Alpha stage, various aspects of gameplay were introduced into the Bedrock codebase, including: crafting, smelting, more blocks, items, mobs, and more game modes to bring it closer to the Java Edition. As the Pocket Edition development team works closely, often blocks released on the Java Edition are released around the same time for Pocket Edition. Certain features were also tested on Pocket Edition before their Java releases, such as beetroots and their related items, and also block models.
During the Alpha phase, the Bedrock codebase was ported to more platforms: first, Pocket Edition was released for Fire on September 13, 2012, and for Windows Phone on December 10, 2014. The Windows 10 Edition Beta was released on July 29, 2015, at a higher price than Pocket Edition. Gear VR Edition was released April 27, 2016, for the same price as Pocket Edition.
Two other versions of Minecraft that are based on the Bedrock codebase, but separate from Bedrock Edition, were also released during this period. Pi Edition is a free and discontinued version of Minecraft for the Raspberry Pi, which was based on an old alpha version of Bedrock. Minecraft Education was released for Windows and macOS on November 1, 2016.


=== Full release ===

On November 11, 2016, the full release of the game, version 1.0.0 (dubbed the Ender Update), was announced. It was released on December 19, 2016, along with the Apple TV Edition and Fire TV Edition. Pocket Edition began to receive updates again for Windows 10 Mobile on February 22, 2017. 
From version 1.2.0, the Better Together Update, the Bedrock editions no longer have the "Edition" subtitle and are renamed to simply Minecraft. A port of Bedrock Edition for Xbox One was released along with the update, and one for the Nintendo Switch was released digitally and physically on June 21, 2018. PlayStation 4 users received the Bedrock Edition with the 1.14.0 update on December 10, 2019. Owners of the original Legacy Console Edition for these consoles can download the new version for free. In October 2020, the Gear VR and Windows 10 Mobile editions of the game were discontinued. In June 2021, the Fire TV edition of the game was discontinued.
From version Preview 1.21.120.21 and release 1.21.120 onward, Minecraft for Windows switched from the deprecated UWP (Universal Windows Platform) application to GDK (Game Development Kit), the general platform for Xbox games. On the GDK platform, the game launches with a "game launcher helper" which directly installs updates and optionally signs the player in, before the main executable gets launched.


=== Beta and Preview test versions ===

Starting on November 22, 2013, Mojang Studios began to publicly release testing versions of full updates to Android users who opt into the beta program, to get major feedback, especially for bug reporting. This enabled the official updates to be considerably more stable.
Versions from 0.8.0 to 0.12.1 required opting into a Google+ group to receive development builds. Players would then see development updates appear as normal updates in the Play Store. On July 17, 2015, the Google+ group was removed due to the amount of spam and advertisements that the group attracted. On November 3, 2015, the PE Beta team published a dedicated blog that was subsequently used for users to opt into the 0.13.0 beta program and to display changelogs for these development builds.
The Xbox Insider Hub app is used to opt into the beta program on Windows since July 31, 2017, and on Xbox One since August 24. Before the release of the Better Together Update, the Xbox One beta was available only to owners of the digital version of the original Xbox One Edition, and not owners of the disc version.
Starting on January 31, 2022, the beta program was expanded to other platforms, starting with iOS and iPadOS, with Minecraft Preview. The previous beta program through Xbox Insider Hub has been phased out and replaced by Minecraft Preview.
Players can also test unfinished or work-in-progress features using Experimental Gameplay in release versions, features that can be turned on through world settings, but once on, it cannot be turned off again in that world.


== Price ==
Although all Bedrock editions are nearly identical, the price varies depending on the platform. The mobile versions cost US$6.99 (£6.99), while the ChromeOS, Xbox, and PS4 versions cost US$19.99 (£19.99, £16.74, and £12.99 respectively). The Windows and Nintendo Switch versions are the most expensive, both costing US$29.99 (£24.99 and £19.99 respectively), though the Windows version includes Java Edition and the Nintendo Switch version includes seven DLC packs. DLC purchased from the Marketplace on one platform is usable on all other platforms, but the game itself is sold separately on each platform. Xbox achievements are not shared between platforms, and buying the game on one of these platforms does not get the game on the others. The Xbox and Windows versions are included with Xbox Game Pass Premium and Xbox Game Pass Ultimate, with the Windows version also included with PC Game Pass. The PS4 version is PS4 Pro enhanced. As with all other versions of Minecraft, updates are free of charge. On Windows, the game can be launched via the Minecraft Launcher.


== Sales ==

As of December 2013, Pocket Edition (the only Bedrock Codebase edition at the time) had sold 16.5 million copies, while at the same time, the Java Edition had sold 13 million. These calculations came out after the 0.8.0 update. This was considered a huge success, with Pocket Edition outselling both Java Edition and Legacy Console Edition, despite being considered to be the least-developed at the time.
On December 2, 2016, Marsh Davies announced that Pocket Edition had sold over 40 million copies (at the time, Java Edition had sold over 24 million). This statistic included Windows 10 Edition and Gear VR Edition.
Minecraft is also usually in the top 10 and regularly #1 in the Apple App Store's and Google Play's Paid Apps Section in the Top Charts.


== Platform differences ==
There are several features in Bedrock Edition that are exclusive to certain platforms due to capability restrictions on different platforms. Here is a table of the features that are available only on certain platforms.


== Quotes ==


== Trivia ==
The term "Bedrock Edition" was originally an unofficial coinage, as Mojang did not provide any official sublabelling to distinguish the edition from Java Edition. After a couple of years, Mojang themselves began to use the term, and it gained official status.


== Gallery ==


=== Screenshots ===


=== Promotional images ===


=== Official artwork ===


==== Old ====


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==