1.2.0, the first release of the Better Together Update, is a first release of Bedrock Edition or simply Minecraft. Bedrock Edition is a continuation of Pocket Edition and its derived editions. It added support for the Xbox One, introduced cross-platform gameplay, and brought the vanilla game much closer to feature parity with Legacy Console Edition by adding features such as new world options, armor stands, banners, jukeboxes, book and quills, fireworks, and parrots. It was released on September 20, 2017, although the full rollout took a few days due to a large number of distribution channels and target devices involved. It should also be noted that there is no changelog documenting differences between this update and the last version of Xbox One Edition.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Banners

Crafted like signs, but with one color of wool instead of planks.
The color of wool represents the base color.
Can be stacked to 16.
Most patterns are created by arranging dyes in certain ways around a banner on a crafting table (see the page on banners for a full list).
Other patterns are achieved with specific items.
Item  pattern: "creeper head  creeper face", "wither skeleton skull  skull and crossbones", "brick block  brick texture background", "oxeye daisy  flower icon", "vines  curly border" and "enchanted golden apple  Mojang logo.
Making these patterns without dyes results in a black color by default
Banners can have up to six layers (in survival).
Over a quadrillion possible combinations, counting rotations and visually identical patterns due to occlusion.
The layers show in the order they were created.
Custom banners with more than six layers are possible using commands.
Top-most layer can be removed using cauldrons.
This removes a third of the water of a full cauldron.
All layers can be removed.
Can be placed on walls or on the ground.
They are visually like an entity that is one block wide and two blocks tall, but in reality, they are a block occupying the lower portion, but having a bigger model.
The hitbox is smaller than a full block, and it lacks any collision properties.
This allows for a solid block to occupy the upper portion of the banner.
They are vulnerable to being destroyed by either water or lava flows.
On the ground, they have 16 different possible rotations (like an armor stand).
Has an animation when placed on the ground, that simulates swaying with the wind.
Can be worn as headgear, but only using the /replaceitem command.
Can be cloned by crafting them together, with a blank banner of the corresponding base color.
Can be used as fuel in furnaces.
Jukeboxes

Plays music disc inside them
Coarse dirt

Grass or mycelium cannot grow on it.
Obtainable only through commands.
Does not spread.
Structure Blocks

Placeable only via /setblock, but unusable.
It has 4 different modes: save, load, corner, and data.
It has an "S" on the texture in save mode, "L" in load mode, "C" in corner mode, and "D" in data mode.
Version exclusive: Only usable in Windows 10 and have a 3D Export mode that can't be changed.


=== Items ===
 Book and quill

Right-click to write on and edit up to 50 pages or read.
Click 'Done' to save the book, 'Sign' to choose a title, and finalize the book.
Crafting recipe: 1 ink sac, 1 feather, and 1 book in any possible shape.
Version exclusive: Can hold two pages on the same screen
Version exclusive: Edit button to change the words per page
 Firework star

Used to create firework rockets.
Combine gunpowder with dyes to get a firework star with those colors used for the sparkles.
Add  Glowstone Dust, a  fire charge, a  diamond, a  gold nugget,  feather, or a  mob head to make the firework twinkling, big, trailing, star-shaped, bursting, or creeper-shaped, respectively.
Craft a firework star with dye to change the color that the sparkles fade to.
 Firework rocket

Non-destructive, rise in the air, and create colorful patterns when shot by dispensers or placed by players.
Combine  paper with  gunpowder to craft a firework rocket.
Add a firework star to add effects, or gunpowder to increase the flight duration.
Version exclusive: Can be launched in any direction depending on the direction a dispenser is facing
Music discs

12 new music discs added.
 11
It cannot be dropped by creepers which get killed by skeletons
 13
 Blocks
 Cat
 Chirp
 Far
 Mall
 Mellohi
 Stal
 Strad
 Wait
 Ward
Spawn eggs

Parrot
Zombie villager


=== Mobs ===
Armor stands

Crafted using a stone slab and 6 sticks.
Stacks up to 16.
Can ride on minecarts.
Can be used to decoratively display armor (including pumpkins, mob heads and player heads).
Armor can be right-clicked to equip the armor stand.
Armor can be equipped by dispensers aimed at any part of the stand.
In survival, it is allowed to hold only one piece of each different kind of armor at a time.
It isn't restricted by the material or any tags of the armor.
Armor can be removed by right-clicking while pointing at the piece of armor the player wants to remove.
Can render enchanted and dyed armor as if it were a mob/player.
While in creative:
Using pick-block on any tangible armor stand gives the player a default stand.
NBT tags can be used to summon armor stands which are small (Small), invisible (Invisible), have arms (ShowArms), have disabled slots (DisabledSlots), have no base plate (NoBasePlate), have no gravity (NoGravity) and are in pre-configured positions (Pose)  This can be done only through commands.
Armor stands with arms can be equipped with items to hold, so they display the same way as players/mobs.
Version exclusive: Can pose without commands
Version exclusive: Can hold tools such as swords without the need for commands
Version exclusive: Have a limited amount of poses that can be switched between by sneaking and interacting with them (right-clicking by default).
Version exclusive: Redstone power can also change the pose
Parrots

Fly around, but sit when "tired".
Tamed with seeds.
If fed cookies, the parrot dies.
Poison particle effects are emitted, but they are not actually killed by poison.
If a player has tamed a parrot and then fed it cookies, it will display the message "Parrot was slain by <player>".
Follow and crowd around nearby mobs.
Imitates sounds of hostile mobs.
Parrots dance if playing music on a nearby jukebox.
Right-click action available:
Right-click on a tamed parrot tells it to sit down.
Walking over/through/near a tamed parrot while crouching will cause it to sit on the player's shoulders.
Will let go if the player jumps.
Can fly with players during elytra flight.
Have 6HP health.
Come in red, blue, green, cyan and gray.


=== World generation ===
Ravines


=== Gameplay ===
Dual wielding

You can now put a map in the off hand
Crafting

The crafting system now incorporates both the recipe book and the classic crafting grid.
Options

World starting preferences
Starting Map
Bonus Chest
Trust Players
Gamerule preferences
TNT Explodes
Natural Regeneration
Gamerules can be toggled in the options menu
Player permissions
In-game server host options
Worlds can now be set to Invite Only, Friends Only, or Friends of Friends
Render Clouds and Fancy Leaves can now be toggled in Video Settings


=== General ===
Splitscreen functionality
In-game help guide
How to play/tutorial screen
New loading screens with tips
Common profane words (in many languages, including Japanese and Chinese) are now censored by the game.
Google Play license verification (Android only)
Remix 3D export functionality (Windows 10 only)
Underwater particles


=== Command format ===
Version exclusive: /tickingarea

Replaces the functionality of spawn chunks in  Java Edition and allows the creation of areas that update even if no player is around
Many ticking areas can be created as long as the chunk limit is not exceeded
Ticking areas work inter-dimensional
Enables features such as crop growth, command blocks, redstone and mob activity when the player is not around
Command variations:
/tickingarea add <from: x y z> <to: x y z> [name: string] (adds a ticking area for a set string in a defined area)
/tickingarea add circle <center: x y z> <radius: int> [name: string] (adds a ticking area for a set string in a defined circular area)
/tickingarea remove <position: x y z> (removes a ticking area from a position)
/tickingarea remove <name: string> (removes a ticking area from a set string)
/tickingarea remove_all (removes all ticking areas)
/tickingarea list [all-dimensions] (lists all ticking areas)
Version exclusive: tick_world

Prevents entities from despawning and makes an entity load the world
Optional despawn distance available for entities which should despawn when players are far away (e.g. Ender Dragon)
Target Selectors

Added @s selector
Used to target the entity executing the command


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Beacon

Light beams change color when going through stained glass and stained glass panes.
Version exclusive: The light only takes the color of the highest stained glass and the colors can't be mixed.
Ice

Is now transparent.
Stained glass and stained glass panes 

Now have their own textures, and are obtainable without the use of inventory editors.
Version exclusive: Changed the inventory icons for glass panes, stained glass panes, and iron bars.
Banners 

Now spawn on end cities.
Observer 

Have updated textures and will now blink red when outputting a redstone pulse
Can now detect many more block changes.
Increased the strength of the redstone pulse outputted by observer blocks and they no longer pulse twice when observing a retracting piston.
Brick blocks, nether brick blocks, and clay blocks 

Renamed to better differentiate from other items.
Single glass panes, stained glass panes, and iron bars 

Are now rod-shaped.
Beds

A message will now display when a bed is too far away when attempting to sleep.
Colored beds can no longer be dyed using the same color of dye.
Trapdoors 

Will now open when placed to adjacent, active power sources.
Sandstone Slab

The underside now has the cracked texture.
Mycelium 

No longer turns into dirt when there's a giant mushroom above it.
Shulker boxes 

Are initially crafted as an undyed variant rather than purple, as a result, there are now 17 shulker box colors.
Pistons

Can now push arrows.
Diorite, Andesite, and Granite

Can no longer be used as a replacement for stone in crafting recipes.
Monster spawners 

Can now only able to spawn up to 4 mobs at a time.
Paintings 

Can now occupy same space as snow and carpet.
Emerald Ore

Can no longer be mined with a stone pickaxe.
Signs

No longer catch fire.
All Blocks

Can now be placed on top of fences that have lead knots attached.


=== Items ===
Maps

Version exclusive: Player heads now appear on maps
Locator maps now track the owner's position, regardless of dimension
Empty maps can now be combined with a compass on an anvil to create a locator map
Incrementally zooming out a map and renaming it on an anvil now costs only experience level
Maps, including exploration maps, can now be obtained using the /give command
Lead

Leash knots can now be untied using right-click
Leash knots now play a sound when placed
Cakes

Are now stackable
Arrows 

Now shake upon impact with blocks.
All Items

Items can now travel upwards through solid blocks, allowing for 33 item elevators


=== Mobs ===
Mooshroom

Now only spawns on mycelium blocks
Witches 

Will now drink a Potion of Fire Resistance when standing on magma blocks
Skeletons, strays, and zombie pigmen 

Now have a chance of spawning with enchanted gear and weapons
Skeleton horses 

Can now be saddled
Snow Golem

Face can now only be seen once it's sheared.
Ender Dragon 

Particles will now appear when the uses its dragon's breath attack while perched
Sheep

Will no longer drop wool to die when they sheared
Polar Bear

Adult variants now panic when on fire
Villager

Farmer villagers now trade 5-7 apples for one emerald
Horse

Riding a horse while eating or drinking will no longer slow it down
All Mobs

Mobs will now avoid cacti, fire, and lava


=== Non-mob entities ===
Boats 

No longer continue to move when the player leaves the boat and a mob is still in it
Lingering water bottles

Will now deal damage to blazes, endermen, and snow golems
Fireball 

Can now set obsidian on fire and open Nether portals
Minecart

Shooting bows and eating can now be done while riding in them


=== World generation ===
Woodland mansions 

Will now spawn with birch plank floors instead of oak and banners now generate.


=== Gameplay ===
Brewing

Now requires blaze powder
Fishing

Now uses the proper loot tables to acquire enchanted items and books
Items picked up are now animated on the hotbar
Temperature decreases with height
Block placement speed now matches the player's movement speed
Adjusted the color that flashes when mobs are attacked
Text chat can now be opened with controllers and touch screens when sleeping in a bed
Players can now go to bed if there are monsters nearby on Peaceful difficulty
Directional audio will continue to match the player's point of view while standing still
Increased the pace and smoothness of moving up stairs while riding a mob
The chat screen can now be closed by pressing Enter when no text is present
Controller sensitivity is now set to 50 by default
The pause button now appears on the HUD (Android Only)
New trade offers from villagers can be observed quicker, after the trades are unlocked
Only one bucket can be placed in a furnace at a time
Players can no longer drink milk instantly after milking a cow
Players can now spawn into areas occupied by partial blocks
The GUI can now be hidden by pressing F1 while riding in boats
You now start creative mode worlds with an empty hotbar.


=== General ===
App name is now "Minecraft"
Skins can be changed from the pause menu
Chat messages can now be muted
Block selections can be shown using a black outline, rather than displaying the block as a lighter color (similar to Java Edition)
Old block selection interface can still be used, although the new interface is default on Xbox One and Switch
Hiding UI elements now hides block selections as well
Redesigned button mapping and added Pick Block for controllers
Increased the default player limit on worlds from 5 to 8 on higher-end devices
New loading screen when entering a new world or crossing dimensions
Removed some splashes:
"Better than Prey!"
"Sexy!"
"Switches and ores!"


=== Technical ===
Optimized chunk generation and loading


=== Command format ===
Version exclusive: A user interface layer to easily set the teleport, time, and weather commands.
New command parsing system
Autocomplete works "everywhere", including selector arguments
/tp
Version exclusive: ^ used for coordinates relative to the direction the player is facing.
Version exclusive: facing mode to make the target entity face a specified location/entity upon teleportation.
falling_block is selectable in commands now.
Version exclusive: fishing_hook is also selectable in commands now.
Version exclusive: /detect is now its own separate command
Players with Op status will now receive messages about commands that were entered by another Op


== Fixes ==
The moon is now correctly oriented
Ghasts will no longer shoot fireballs from farther than they can be seen
'Great View From Up Here' achievement is now unlockable
Players will no longer burn when standing near lava in the Nether
The Lapis Lazuli icon is no longer missing from the Enchantment Table screen
Wolves tamed by players not present in a session will no longer change their whole body color
End rods now give off light particles
Glazed Terracotta now shows proper colors on maps
Dandelions can now be crafted into yellow dye when Pocket UI is enabled
Fixed quartz pillars not being craftable using Pocket UI
Fixed the level up sound not playing for every five levels gained
Other players should no longer be seen levitating in their sleep
Sounds now play when witches drink potions
Fixed a crash that could occur when destroying maps
Fixed a crash that could occur when the host enters a portal in multiplayer
Fixed the texture of fences in the inventory and in-hand
The available enchants on enchantment tables will no longer revert to the originally available enchants upon world reload
Evokers will no longer attack players on Peaceful difficulty
Mining speed with Haste II and Efficiency V has been increased to its correct speed
Signs can no longer be set on fire
Fixed the hand placement of tools on the inventory screen
Fixed names above baby animals being too high
Fixed an item duplication issue that occurred when Pocket UI was enabled
Fixed the position of several items when held in the off-hand
Horses can no longer run off when loading a world if they were leashed to a fence
Fixed graphical issues that sometimes occurred at sunset
The proper sound now plays when Evokers are transforming blue sheep
The cellular data warning message will now appear in Settings when using a controller
Singleplayer worlds no longer appear in the Friends tab
Anvils will no longer consume the entire input stack when crafting a map
Fixed some players appearing invisible in-game when they should not be
Fixed a crash when placing Glazed Terracotta with /fill and /setblock commands
Fixed the controller tooltips shown on the inventory screen when placing and taking items
Fixed icons stretching in the inventory when Pocket UI was enabled
The crosshair now points at the correct block when sneaking
Opening and closing the command block screen will no longer activate an observer block
Fixed seeing through stairs, End portal and hoppers when they are placed next to each other
Fixed milking a cow with the last bucket in a stack not giving milk
Explosions near water will now properly deal damage to players and mobs
The Wither will no longer play overlapping sounds
Items will now be pushed when a transparent block is placed over them
Creepers now flash properly when they're about to explode
Chicken jockeys will no longer sink in the water
Lingering potions will no longer clip through the player that threw them
Block highlighting will no longer appear when Hide GUI is enabled
Different top slab types no longer override each other
Arrows will no longer infinitely bounce off the top of players in Creative mode
Fixed a rogue pixel on the nametag texture
Creepers will now take damage if they fall while following players
End Stone now has the proper blast resistance
Evocation fangs can now be summoned using commands
Mobs will now drop loot and XP orbs when killed with a splash or lingering Potion of Decay
Evokers no longer run away from invisible players
Vexes will now attack villagers and iron golems
Arrows are no longer deflected when shooting at burning mobs
When fishing, the bobber will now submerge and play the right sound when a fish bites
Realms that were named with the '' symbol can now be renamed
Command block chat messages will no longer appear on the pause menu
Slimes will no longer clip through blocks
Fish hooks will now properly stick to mobs
Adventure mode can now be selected in the world settings for imported template worlds that were set to Adventure by default
Baby villagers have learned how to hold items the right way
Open fence gates can no longer push or pull entities
The Ender Dragon's wings will no longer flicker
The texture on top of TNT no longer rotates when ignited
Adult polar bears now drop the correct amount of XP
Cauldron water will no longer briefly change color when pushed by a piston
Llamas will no longer creepily turn their heads to stare at the player while riding them
Various fixes to the Marketplace screens
Bats can no longer swim underwater
Redstone repeaters and comparators now have the proper bottom texture
The /effect instant_damage command will now cause damage if [amplifier: int] is 255
Villagers no longer accept Charcoal as Coal while trading
Fishing rods are now held properly in-hand
The base of end crystals have been adjusted
Nether Brick block side textures have been brightened
The title now displays properly on the dispenser screen
Iron Golems can no longer be knocked back with Punch arrows
Iron Golems will now avoid fire
Beds can no longer be placed in a way that clips through snow layers
Various fixes to the Storage screen
Setting the 'sendcommandfeedback' gamerule to false no longer prevents players from displaying non-op commands such as /list and /help
Fixed texture clipping on the inside of Shulker boxes
Shulker box opening and closing animations are now much faster
Shulker boxes are now held properly in-hand
Shulker boxes will now remain open until all players have closed the inventory
Shulker boxes can now be opened when placed adjacent to Shulkers
Shulker boxes placed by dispensers will now rotate based on the surrounding blocks
Shulker boxes are no longer misaligned in item frames
Shulker boxes now play the proper sound when placed and broken
Shulker boxes dropped as an item can now be destroyed by explosions
Shulker boxes now change their collision box when opened
Shulkers can now be teleported using commands
Shulkers can no longer be set on fire
Shulkers have improved their camouflage and have restored their original color
Shulkers can now be spawned upside-down from spawn eggs
Shulkers can no longer teleport into a block already occupied by another Shulker
Shulkers will now teleport out of water
The hand will no longer wave repeatedly when a player can't build
Bone meal is now properly consumed on tall grass and ferns
Minecarts now wobble correctly when passing over activator rails
Giving a resistance amplifier of 8 or higher no longer causes players to gain absorption health when hurt
Fixed up the Ender Dragon's death animation so its wings no longer turn white
Light no longer stays visible after burning a two-block tall plant
Entities that are teleported while in boats or minecarts will no longer be teleported underground
Fixed the text height on signs in the Greek Mythology Texture Pack
Custom skins will now show properly on the skin picker without having to re-launch the game
The /fill command will now return proper results, if failed
The /fill command now gives repeaters the correct delay
'Pick block' will no longer behave strangely after dropping items from the inventory
Blocks that are affected by gravity will no longer break when pushed by a piston facing up
Repeating command blocks that are copied with 'pick block' and then placed will now activate repeatedly
The "Open" button will no longer appear when looking at a command block in minecart while playing Survival
Fixed redstone ore producing too many particles when items are dropped on top of them
The Wither will now die in the void
The Wither's heads will now look around more and skulls will now shoot from multiple heads
Adjusted the look of Buttons that are equipped in-hand
Large chests will now clone correctly when using the /clone command
Fixed the missing wolf idle sounds
Fixed some mismatched villager trading sounds
Cats now purr again
Beds placed with the /fill and /setblock commands will no longer be invisible
Players will no longer fall one block when teleporting with an ender pearl
Magma Cubes will now take drowning damage
Villagers will now run away from Vindicators, Evokers, and Vexes
Can no longer see through blocks when viewed from below and underwater
Non-dyed leather armor with no longer use up water from a cauldron
'Pick Block' now works on llamas to get llama spawn eggs
Arrows are now destroyed by end crystal explosions
Arrows are now destroyed when using /kill @e[type=arrow] and /kill @e
Other mob heads no longer appear momentarily when a mob head is placed
Fixed exploration maps showing as blank until the game is re-launched
Fixed Add-Ons with dependencies not loading if there was another activated pack with dependencies
Baby mob heads are now scaled properly with Add-Ons
When an Ocelot spawns with two baby Ocelots, the baby Ocelots can now be tamed
Mobs are now properly affected by Splash Potion of Strength
Seeds will no longer pop off of covered farmland at night
Farmland will only dry up if there is no nearby water and nothing is planted on it
Arrows can now be picked up after shooting at Endermen
Air bubbles will no longer appear on the HUD when suffocating inside blocks
The /setworldspawn command can no longer be executed if the Y coordinate has a negative value
Zombie Villagers now sit at the proper height in boats and minecarts
Baby Zombie Jockeys will now properly mount mobs
Rabbits now hop at the proper speed
The 'mobgriefing' gamerule now applies to Monster Egg blocks
Blocks can no longer be seen through when flying close to the ground with Elytra in third-person


== Trivia ==
In Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha, grassless dirt was added as a placeholder for coarse dirt. Coarse dirt was not officially added until this update, over three years later. Instead of being an entirely new item, grassless dirt was re-textured to coarse dirt and the block name was changed.


== Videos ==


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==