Beta 1.16.0.55 is the eighth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.16.0, released on April 2, 2020, which fixes bugs.


== Fixes ==
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that could occur when creating a new world on iOS.
Fixed a crash that could occur when exiting a world with particles present.
Fixed several crash issues related to the player entering water.
Fixed a crash that could happen when a mob's state changed.
General

Light propagation now works correctly, fixing hostile mob spawning. (MCPE-49616)
Chunks should no longer fail to load properly in +250MB worlds. (MCPE-58514)
Fixed a bug with light persisting after a block change.
Ticking areas can no longer be removed on the same tick they are created (MCPE-36769).
Lighting now propagates correctly through chunk/subchunk borders (MCPE-58182).
Fixed an issue that could cause areas to show lighting errors on servers.
Added new overload for /replaceitem with an option for destroy (the old behavior) or keep (the command will return an error if an item occupies that slot).
The smooth camera option (from full keyboard gameplay) is no longer jittery and is smooth again (MCPE-54969).
The screen no longer twitches when the player dies in the Nether or End.
Gameplay

Water can now be collected from bubble columns (MCPE-37571)
Casting a fishing rod will no longer attach itself to a parrot mounted on the players shoulder (MCPE-60361).
Fully grown sweet berry bushes can now be harvested when holding bone meal (MCPE-54206).
Parity: Carrot on a stick, shield, and shovel now lose durability consistently in Bedrock.
Fire charges are now consumed after lighting a tnt block (MCPE-42938).
Player icons no longer appear as a white square on locator maps.
Blocks

Wall signs attached to doors are no longer left floating after the bottom half of the door is broken (MCPE-43748).
Mobs

Creepers no longer lose aggro immediately after losing sight of its target (MCPE-32815).
Ghast hitbox now matches its rendering (MCPE-44326).
Fixed the "MeleeAttackGoal" to allow entities to hit target entities beneath them.
The iron golem's legs don't swing as far anymore.
Graphics and rendering

Experience orbs have been data-driven.
Fireballs have been data-driven.
NPC geometry and animations have been data-driven.
Items no longer flash green when being removed from a furnace.
Fixed a bug where glass and water could be drawn incorrectly when close to each other.
Fixed the custom glint texture issue when added to compasses.
Scripting and components

Removed type property from minecraft:shooter as it was never used.
Updated minecraft:spawn_entity to have an internal entities object or array.
Updated the minecraft:behavior.circle_around_anchor behavior.
Added attack_chance to the minecraft:behavior.defend_village_target goal.
Fixed removed or destroyed entities querying as valid in script.
Invalid items in the spawn_item field of a minecraft:spawn_entity now display an error.
StompEggGoal no longer uses search_count as it now searches all blocks in the specified area.
Fixed navigation.walk to handle the case where it is used on a flying entity, so that the flying entity will not cause lag while it is touching the ground.
The minecraft:density_limit component is now documented in the Spawn Rules documentation section (MCPE-61126).
A content error will now show up if you provide an invalid item name to minecraft:interact in the transform_to_item field.


== References ==


== Navigation ==