1.19.0 (Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire, Windows, Xbox, PlayStation) or 1.19.1 (Nintendo Switch), the first release of The Wild Update, is a major update to Bedrock Edition released on June 7, 2022. The update was first announced on October 16, 2021 during Minecraft Live 2021.  It introduces the deep dark biome, the mangrove swamp biome, mobs like the allay, the frog, the tadpole, the warden, and some new items included like sculk blocks and other items that are useful and for decorations.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Froglight

Dropped by small magma cubes when they are eaten by frogs.
Has three variants: pearlescent (purple), verdant (green), and ochre (yellow).
Which variant is dropped depends on the frog variant that eats the magma cube.
A pearlescent froglight is dropped if a warm (white) frog eats the magma cube.
A verdant froglight is dropped if a cold (green) frog eats the magma cube.
An ochre froglight is dropped if a temperate (orange) frog eats the magma cube.
Emits a light level of 15.
 Frogspawn

Non-solid blocks that can be placed on the surface of water.
Disappears when water under the frogspawn is gone.
Can't be obtained in survival: does not drop upon breaking, even with Silk Touch.
Is laid by frogs after mating when they are bred with slimeballs.
Hatches tadpoles after some time.
Tadpole variant depends on the biome where it grows into a frog.
 Mangrove Leaves

Generated in mangrove trees.
A decorative block.
Can grow mangrove propagules if bone meal is used on it.
 Mangrove Log

Generated as a part of mangrove trees, which are located in mangrove swamps.
Can be crafted into mangrove planks and wood.
Has a stripped variant as well.
 Mangrove Planks

Crafted from mangrove logs.
Can be used to craft respective slabs, stairs, fences, fence gates, pressure plates, signs, buttons, doors, boats and trapdoors.
 Mangrove Propagule

A new type of sapling which grows into a mangrove tree when planted.
Grows underneath mangrove leaves.
Can be grown by applying bone meal to mangrove leaves, grows from the exposed bottom of it.
Propagules can also grow spontaneously from leaves, but only if they're naturally generated (not player placed leaves).
Have 4 stages to fully grown, can be accelerated with bone meal.
Can break off a fully grown one, plant it to growing a mangrove tree.
Can be planted both on land and underwater.
Can be placed in flower pots.
Bees can pollinate them.
Bees follow players holding them and can be bred with them.
 Mangrove Roots

A see-through decorative block just like leaves, but can be waterlogged.
Water currently doesn't spread outwards like with other waterlogged blocks.
Mining faster when using axes.
Unlike leaves, it does not break when moved by a piston.
Has unique sounds.
 Mangrove Wood

A new type of wood, as well as a stripped variant.
Can be used to craft mangrove planks.
 Mud

Found in mangrove swamp biomes.
Can be created by using a water bottle, directly or through a dispenser, on dirt, coarse dirt and rooted dirt.
Can be converted into clay by placing mud above a block which has pointed dripstone underneath. The dripstone dries it out, producing a clay block.
This in turn enables renewable clay in Bedrock Edition (clay is already renewable in Java Edition).
When walking on mud, entities sink down a bit.
Like soul sand, but without the slowdown.
Enderman holdable.
 Mud Bricks

Can be crafted from 4 packed mud.
Can be crafted into mud brick slabs, stairs, and walls using a crafting table or stonecutter.
 Muddy Mangrove Roots

Found in mangrove swamp biomes.
Can be crafted from 1 mud and 1 mangrove roots.
This is a full block, not like lichen.
Unlike regular roots, they are an opaque block that can't be waterlogged.
 Packed Mud

Can be crafted from 1 mud and 1 wheat.
Can be used to craft mud bricks.
 Reinforced Deepslate

A new block only found in ancient cities shaped as a large frame
Is not craftable.
Can be broken, but won't drop anything, even with Silk Touch.
Is completely blast-resistant, is immune to withers and ender dragons, and takes an incredibly long amount of time to mine (82.5 seconds, which is almost 9 times longer than obsidian with a diamond pickaxe).
Cannot be moved with pistons.
 Sculk

Generates in the deep dark biome.
Has an animated texture.
Drops only experience when broken without Silk Touch.
Does not drop anything or experience when blown up with TNT.
Sculk blocks grow when a mob dies near a sculk catalyst.
 Sculk Catalyst

Generates in the deep dark biome.
Emits soul particles after a mob dies within 8 blocks, and grows sculk related blocks.
Spreads sculk blocks to wherever a nearby mob dies. The amount it spreads depends on the amount of experience the mob is meant to drop.
Even if the mob doesn't drop experience as it wasn't killed by a player, the blocks would still spread based on the amount of experience it normally drops.
Experience does not drop in these cases.
The charge decays over time, faster the furthest away from the catalyst it moves.
If a charge decays more than 4 blocks away from the catalyst, it has a chance of creating either a sculk sensor (90%) or a sculk shrieker (10%).
If a charge decays more than 24 blocks away from the catalyst, it merely vanishes.
Drops only experience when broken without Silk Touch.
Emits a light level of 6.
 Blooms when activated.
 Sculk Shrieker

Generates in the deep dark biome.
Has two soul-shaped patterns in the center.
Has the ability to "shriek", emitting ring-like/sonic particles.
Is activated by a sculk sensor, redstone signal or player's stepping.
Sculk shriekers summon wardens only if there isn't one within 48 blocks.
Gives players the Darkness effect when activated.
If activated three times, a warden is summoned from the ground.
Player has 4 levels of warning_level (0-3), everytime activated, the levels increased by 1, and never decrease.
If a player had successfully summoned a warden, only one attempt is required to summon a warden next time.
Drops only experience when broken without Silk Touch.
Has a can_summon blockstate, which determines it summon a warden or not.
Set to true by default for sculk shriekers placed via worldgen.
Set to false by default for sculk shriekers placed by a player or generated via sculk spread.
 Sculk Vein

Generates in the deep dark biome on the edge of sculk patches.
Generates in a layer on top of blocks, similar to snow.
Can be placed in all directions, like glow lichen.
Has an animated texture.
Drops nothing when broken without Silk Touch.
Some have parts that are transparent, allowing the player to see the block it is on top of.
Can be waterlogged.


=== Items ===
 Bucket of Tadpole

Added bucket of tadpole, can be obtained by catching a tadpole using a water bucket.
 Disc Fragment

A fragment of the Music Disc "5", which can be crafted into the disc.
Can be obtained only from the chests in the ancient cities. They are extremely rare and hard to obtain.
 Echo Shard

Can be found only in loot chests in ancient cities.
Can be used to craft recovery compasses.
 Goat Horn

Drops when a goat rams coal ore, emerald ore, iron ore, log, packed ice, or stone.
Can play a loud sound that can be heard from afar, with a cooldown around 8 seconds between each use.
Have 8 variants, each variant have their unique sound.
"Ponder", "Sing", "Seek", "Feel" can be obtained from the regular goats' ramming, or the chest in pillager outposts with 100% chance.
"Admire", "Call", "Yearn", "Dream" can only be obtained from the screaming goats' ramming.
The variant of horn that a goat may drop is completely random.
 Music Disc 5

A new music disc, by Samuel Åberg, titled "5".
Obtained by restoring it from a fragmented state: can be obtained only through crafting by using 9 "Disc Fragment 5"s.
Track is similar in nature to 11.
 Recovery Compass

A new type of compass which can point to the last place where player died.
Randomly spins if not held by a player, the player hasn't died, or when the player is not in the same dimension of the death point.
Can be crafted with a compass surrounded by 8 echo shards.
Spawn Eggs

 Allay spawn egg.
 Frog spawn egg.
 Tadpole spawn egg.
 Warden spawn egg.


=== Mobs ===
 Allay

Voted to be in the update during Minecraft Live 2021.
Can find dropped blocks or items for a player, collecting the same items from the world as it holds in its hand.
Picks up dropped items in loaded chunks and can carry up to a stack at a time, and cannot duplicate items or take items out of chests. It drops its collected items when in range of a note block.
Allay collects an item within 32 blocks of the player.
If holding an item it got from a player, it follows that player.
It can be made to hold an item by interacting with the allay.
The item can also be removed by interacting with the allay while with an empty hand.
Able to drop items at nearby note blocks, and stay close to a note block that has been played near them.
When playing a note block near them, that note block becomes their favorite one for 30 seconds, and they attempt to drop off items at the note block rather than at the player.
Connecting with note blocks is visualized by the vibration particle.
Connecting with note blocks can be blocked by wool, by placing wool between the allay and the note block.
If they have items in their inventory, they attempt to give them to their owner.
Sometimes spawn in cages next to pillager outposts (similar to iron golem), and inside woodland mansions.
Has a delay for picking new items after delivering items (3 seconds).
Immune to damage from its owner while holding an item.
Have 20HP × 10 health points and a natural health regeneration of 2HP per second.
 Frog

Comes in three variants: temperate, warm, and cold.
The temperate variant is orange, the warm variant is white, and the cold variant is green.
Can croak, jump, swim, and slowly walk on land.
Are able to jump over 5 blocks.
Frogs are faster in water than on land.
Prefer to jump to lily pad and big dripleaf.
Are able to target specific mobs as food, using a base attack strength of 10.
Eats small slimes, dropping slime balls.
Eats small magma cubes, dropping froglights.
Can be tempted and bred using slimeballs.
Lay eggs on water after mating.
Grow from tadpoles.
Variants depend on the temperature of the biome it turns from a tadpole to a frog in.
Have 10HP health points.
 Tadpole

Grows up into a frog 20 minutes after birth, which can be sped up using slimeballs.
Frog type depends on which temperature it grows in.
Can be held in a water bucket.
Jump around like fish when on land, and eventually die.
Panics on land and pathfinds to a nearby water source.
Are hunted down by axolotls.
Also panics if there are axolotls nearby.
Have 6HP health points.
 Warden

The first fully blind mob (bats have basic eyesight, both in-game and in the real world).
Because of this, it stumbles as it walks.
Has a sense of smell. It can detect and pathfind toward the general location of a player or mob through a "smelling" action.
Prioritizes smelling the player or mob that it is most suspicious of, rather than the one closest to it.
Has a sense of vibration. When sensing movement, it pathfinds toward the source of the movement.
It follows and attacks players, mobs, and other entities that make vibrations.
It does not attack other wardens.
When it detects a vibration, the growths on its head rattle and light up, similar to the sculk sensor.
Seems to follow the same rules as the sculk sensor when detecting vibrations.
If any projectile (e.g. egg, snowball, arrow) lands near it, the warden inspects the location where the projectile landed, due to the projectile creating significant vibrations. This feature can be used in order to cause a distraction.
Does not detect players that are sneaking.
Can detect players or mobs that have the Invisibility effect.
Becomes more suspicious of a player or mob as it detects its location more through vibrations and/or smelling. When it suspects the target enough, it identifies its exact location, which aggravates it, causing it to pathfind toward the target to attack regardless of outside distractions.
Spawns in the deep dark biome, specifically when a player activates sculk shriekers four times.
It is the only mob that spawns in the deep dark biome.
"Emerges" from the ground when spawned by sculk shriekers.
Digs back into the ground when it doesn't sense any vibration after 60 seconds.
Like how name tags prevent despawning, name tags can also prevent wardens from being able to burrow back to the ground.
A mob designed to be extremely difficult, intended to be avoided and fled from.
Has 500HP × 250 health points and does 30HP × 15 damage on Normal difficulty, bringing players wearing full netherite armor from full health to 7HP health points. Wardens also disable shields when they hit the players with their fists, and are at least as fast as a walking player. (More health than a wither (300HP × 150) except in BE, hard mode, where Wither HP = 600HP × 300)
Warden's chest has a glowing core that appears to brighten and dim in tandem with the Darkness effect.
The core creates a low throbbing or "heartbeat" sound as it pulses. The sound and animation speed up rapidly as the warden gets more suspicious of or closer to attacking a player or mob.
Is about 3.5 blocks tall, making it one of the tallest mobs in the game, exceeding the iron golem and enderman in height and width (the same).
Wardens have long melee reach, being able to hit the player when on top of a four block pillar, thus making it capable of countering certain cheese tactics, such as pillaring.
Can charge a ranged attack when the player is building high, hiding behind walls or being out of range of their melee attack.
Their rib cages open up to shriek a sonically charged ranged attack that can penetrate walls and bypasses shields and armor.
The ranged attack deals 10HP damage in Normal and can hit at a horizontal distance of 15 blocks.
The ranged attack can hit only one target at a time.
Is immune to lava and knockback.
Drops a sculk catalyst upon death.


=== Non-mob entities ===
Mangrove Boat

A new type of boat, crafted with mangrove planks.

 Boat with Chest

Similar to a minecart with chest, but with a boat instead of a minecart, so the player can take a journey on the water and carry things.
Can hold only one entity.
Crafted by combining a chest with any boat.
Comes in different wood plank variants, including the dark oak, jungle, and the newly added mangrove wood plank variant.
Opening its inventory makes nearby adult piglins angry.
Breaking it drops itself and all its items.


=== World generation ===
 Ancient City

New structure that generates within the deep dark biome and includes all of the deep dark features within it.
Extremely large in terms of size, always generated at Y=-52.
Made of deepslate and its variants, basalt and its variants, and gray wool.
Contains soul sand, soul fire and soul lanterns, as well as candles and skeleton skulls.
Contains mysterious frames made of reinforced deepslate.
Contains chests with unique loot, like echo shards, disc fragments, and the Swift Sneak enchantment.
Other valuable loot includes the "otherside" music disc, Potions of Regeneration II, enchanted books, enchanted iron and diamond leggings, enchanted diamond hoes, and enchanted golden apples.
If the frame of reinforced deepslate generates with a chest in front, it always contains one golden apple (a hint about how to open the secret door below).
Has different levels and open spaces, with several types of ruins and wall structures.
Some of these structures contain dark oak logs, planks, and fences; cyan, light blue, and blue wool and carpets; ladders; ice and its variants; note blocks; stone pressure plates; and iron trapdoors opened with levers.
Hidden underneath the frame of reinforced deepslate are several rooms containing redstone mechanisms that serve to introduce new players to their function.
Each variant of the city center has a different redstone puzzle concealing the entrance, requiring slightly different strategies to solve.
The mechanisms are made with redstone dust, redstone torches, redstone repeaters, redstone comparators, redstone lamps, blocks of redstone, sticky pistons, a sculk sensor, a target, and a lectern.
One variant includes a lever, and another includes a furnace containing 24 deepslate and a wooden shovel.
Deep Dark

New biome at the "deepest depths of the world".
Tends to generate under continental/mountainous areas, exclusively within the deepslate layer between Y=-1 and Y=-64.
Ancient Cities can generate here.
Wardens can spawn here through the activation of sculk shriekers.
The surface contains patches of sculk-related blocks.
With the exception of monster spawners, no mobs other than wardens can spawn there, similar to mushroom fields.
Mangrove Swamp

A new swamp biome with teal water that often generates in warmer clusters, usually next to jungles and deserts.
Contains mangrove trees, a new type of tree, and are the only trees that can generate there (unlike the regular swamp, that can also generate oak trees).
Naturally spawns warm frogs and slimes, but there are no sheep, cows, pigs or chickens.
Does not generate witch huts.
The floor is coated with a layer of mud which goes all the way from the surface down to stone.
Tropical fish can spawn in water.
Water fog color is pale green instead of yellow like in the normal swamp.
Mangrove Trees

New type of tree variant that is found in mangrove swamp biomes.
Has an unique shape, with a root system of mangrove roots leading up to a forking trunk and mangrove leaves.
Composed of mangrove logs.
Generated roots composed of mangrove root blocks.
Has propagules hanging from the leaves of the tree.
Moss carpet generates on top of some roots.
Grows from mangrove propagules.
It has a chance to generate a bee nest.


=== Gameplay ===
Achievements

Death messages

Added new death messages to wardens' ranged attack:
"<player> was obliterated by a sonically-charged shriek".
Enchanting

Added the Swift Sneak enchantment.
This enchantment can be found exclusively in chests in ancient cities.
Cannot be obtained by fishing, enchanting, or other loot chests, similar to Soul Speed.
Has a total of three levels.
Only available for leggings.
Allow the player to walk faster while sneaking, up to 75% of normal speed at level III.
Status effects

 Darkness
A status effect triggered by the sculk shrieker, causing the player's camera to dim in brightness, thus limiting the vision of players.
Lowers the gamma down at an equivalent of “Moody” while having this effect.


=== General ===
Music

Added new music, all by Lena Raine.
"Ancestry" plays only in the deep dark.
"Aerie", "Firebugs", and "Labyrinthine" plays in the lush caves, all types of swamps, forests, and jungles, as well as the menu screen.
Due to a bug, "Aerie", "Firebugs", and "Labyrinthine" still play in the menu screens of Bedrock Edition at 1.20.0 to 1.20.15. However, this was fixed in 1.20.30.
Settings

A new accessibility slider has been added in the options menu called “Darkness Effect Strength”.
It controls how dark the Darkness effect gets when a Warden or Sculk Shrieker gives it to the player.
Particles

Added new particles:
 minecraft:sculk_soul_particle
 Emitted by sculk catalysts when activated by sculk sensors.
 minecraft:shriek_particle
 Emitted by sculk shriekers when activated by sculk sensors.
minecraft:sculk_charge_pop_particle and minecraft:sculk_charge_particle
minecraft:sculk_sensor_redstone_particle
 Emitted by sculk sensors when activated by players.
Splashes

Added the following splash text:
"Shriek like a Sculk Shrieker!"
"Who let the frogs out?"
"RIBBIT!"
"Croak team!"
"Nooooooooooooo!"
"Flower forest TM perfume"
"Hat Fridays!"


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Brewing stand

Slightly changed its texture, to make their arms connect to their bases.
End portal frame

Slightly changed its texture, to make better transition with the End stone texture.
End rod

Removed unused pixels in its texture.
Mycelium

Slightly changed its side texture, to match other dirt-based blocks.
Sculk sensor

Now available without enabling experimental gameplay.
Generates in the deep dark biome.
Can only be obtained with Silk Touch, otherwise it drops experience.
Detects vibrations 9 blocks or less away.
Cannot detect vibrations on any wool block or wool carpet.
Cannot detect players if they sneak.
Always activates when stepped on, even when sneaking.
Able to activate sculk shriekers when activated (spreads vibrations to the nearest shrieker).
Able to communicate with wardens by activating sculk shriekers.


=== Items ===
Boats

Changed item textures of all previously existing boats.


=== Mobs ===
Endermen, Skeletons, and Wither Skeletons

Now spawn from light level 0 to 11 in the Nether, which is wider range than before.
Goat

Now can drop 2 horns each.
The number of horns left to drop is represented on the model.
Parrots

Can now imitate wardens.
Spiders and Cave spiders

Fixed texture mapping of both types of spiders.
Wandering trader

Now sells 1 mangrove propagule for 5 emeralds.


=== Non-mob entities ===
Minecart with Chest, Minecart with Furnace, Minecart with TNT and Minecart with Hopper

Crafting recipes are now shapeless.
Now drop themselves when broken.


=== General ===
Music

The places where the following existing music can be played are changed:
"Stand Tall", "Wending", and "Infinite Amethyst" can no longer be played in the main menu.
"Left to Bloom" and "One More Day" can no longer be played in the main menu, can be played in all types of forests, jungles, and old growth taigas.
"Floating Dream" and "Comforting Memories" can be played in all types of forests, jungles, and old growth taigas.
Panorama

Changed to reflect The Wild Update, showing a mangrove swamp.


== Fixes ==
Performance / Stability

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay
Fixed a crash that could occur during splitscreen play
Fixed a crash that could occur when lightning hits a Lightning Rod in certain scenarios
Fixed several crashes that could occur on some Marketplace worlds
Fixed a crash that could occur when players are battling each other and both players are wearing Thorns enchanted armor (MCPE-153593)
Fixed a crash that could occur when players died while affected by Wither
Fixed a crash which could occur when trading with a villager that last traded with a disconnected player
Fixed a crash that would occasionally occur in villages on iOS
Cleaned up leftover biome/block/light memory when leaving a world
Fixed an issue that caused Marketplace downloads to get stuck in queue (MCPE-54531)
Fixed being unable to edit characters in the Dressing Room on Nintendo Switch (MCPE-156209)
Gameplay

Fixed an issue that caused the player to take fall damage after getting into a bed while falling (MCPE-153122)
Fixed an issue where the Invert Y Axis setting was not working correctly with touch controls
The player can now slide from movement directions to jump and not get interrupted when jump and sneak are swapped on 'Classic’ touch controls (MCPE-151149)
World Generation

Several improvements to level chunk blending
Mobs

Fixed an issue causing baby llamas to fire llama spit from above their head (MCPE-144948)
Mirrored the spider's left legs (MCPE-152927)
Mobs do not get stuck into open trapdoors anymore (MCPE-154106)
Fixed an issue causing the parrot's head to always face the player while riding the player. (MCPE-152510)
Villagers will no longer begin sleeping while riding something near a bed
Illagers are now allowed to migrate to other villages and progress raids (MCPE-151310)
Trader llamas can now breed after being fed hay bales
Trader llamas will no longer be persistent after being unleashed from the wandering trader (MCPE-102302)
Blocks

Fences and walls no longer connect to bells and brewing stands (MCPE-152757)
Fixed a bug where the brewing stand's arms textures did not touch the base (MCPE-152932)
Moved the brewing stand's base UVs and updated the base texture
Fixed the brewing stand's arms rotation
Created a better transition between the End portal frame side texture and the End stone (MCPE-152930)
Removed unused pixels in the End rod texture (MCPE-152929)
Updated the mycelium's side texture to match other dirt-based textures (MCPE-152928)
Fixed light blocks being destroyable from within while underwater (MCPE-148393)
Fixed a bug where End crystal beams would point far above their target blocks
Blocks affected by gravity now fall correctly on replaceable blocks (MCPE-152937)
Slabs can once again be placed continuously (MCPE-151887)
Torches can no longer be placed on bells
Items

Updated boat item icon textures to make them consistent with Java Edition (MCPE-153353)
Fixed incorrect names for white dye, black dye, brown dye, and blue dye (MCPE-153522)
Fixed a bug where an undamaged tool, such as a pickaxe, when name-changed on an anvil, would fail to work correctly when used for the first time (MCPE-152637)
The recipes for minecart with chest/hopper/TNT are now shapeless
Fixed a bug where the trident, bow, spyglass and crossbow would not render when picked up by a fox (MCPE-135346)
Fixed a bug causing z-fighting to occur on bottom of player’s head while wearing a skull (MCPE-149125)
Each minecart variant (chest/hopper/TNT) drops itself as a single item when broken, instead of splitting into two items (such as chest and minecart)
Graphical

Fixed an issue that caused Leads to render on top of glass (MCPE-145764)
Fixed a bug causing the fire animation to flicker when the player is standing in a lava cauldron while in Creative mode (MCPE-148999)
Fixed an issue that could cause severe visual glitches when using emotes more than once (MCPE-155049)
Fixed graphical corruption issues on Android devices (MCPE-155509)
User Interface

Minor changes have been made for Xbox players when switching accounts while the game is open. See this article for details
Shift-clicking items will once again combine items of same type into a stack (MCPE-153992)
Added settings to change duration of notifications
The "Submit Feedback" button is now described as a link by Text-To-Speech
Added appropriate messaging when there is no internet connection on Xbox devices
Fixed enchantment option on Pocket UI Profile not being displayed
Fixed a bug where items could be dropped by clicking in the dark gray area of the left side of the player inventory when using a furnace, blast furnace, smoker, enchanting table, grindstone, brewing stand, anvil, beacon, and smithing table
Players can now sign in with a QR code on Nintendo Switch and PlayStation consoles
Featured Servers message text is no longer centered
"Controller lost connection" prompt will now be shown after the world generation screen if a controller was disconnected while on that screen
Wandering Trader

The wandering trader no longer opens or closes doors (MCPE-113452)
The wandering trader now randomly moves around (MCPE-45756)
The wandering trader now matches Java Edition's drinking sounds (MCPE-47057)
The wandering trader now has disappear/reappear sound effects when gaining/losing the Invisibility effect
The wandering trader can now be named with a name tag (this will not prevent it from despawning)
Shulkers

Shulkers are now fire immune (MCPE-33236)
Shulkers now remain in upright position in vehicles (MCPE-115269)
Shulkers no longer fail to spawn when there’s another shulker at relative negative y and x axis


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==