This is a list of Bedrock Edition 1.2.13 development versions.


== beta 1.2.13.5 ==
Beta 1.2.13.5 is the first beta version released for 1.2.13 that mainly fixed bugs. This beta also includes changes and fixes from the 1.2.10 Beta.


=== Changes ===
Friendly fire (PvP) can now be toggled from world options
Adjusted vertical look acceleration when using a controller
Added menu screen transitions, which can be toggled in Setting
Added search functionality to the marketplace to easily find specific content
Chunks have been palleted.
The game should be less likely to crash due to being out of memory.
Server instance thread added


=== Fixes ===
Crashes/performance

Fixed a crash that occurred when converting worlds from Xbox One Edition
Fixed a crash that occurred on Android devices due to rendering issues
Fixed a crash that occurred when firing projectiles
Fixed a crash that occurred due to an issue with redstone torches
Fixed a crash that occurred when navigating the Store on low-end and mid-tier devices
Fixed a crash that occurred when leaving the End
Chunk generation is now prioritized first to the chunks closest to the player
General

The 'Beam Me Up' achievement can once again be unlocked
Starting map and bonus chest can no longer be toggled for template worlds
The second player in split-screen can no longer die if their personal game mode is set to creative
Gameplay

Increased the speed of crop growth and grass spreading
Players no longer float above beds while sleeping
Vines that don't have a support block will no longer float in mid-air
Players can no longer jump out of minecarts using the default jump button if it has been bound to a different button
Minecarts no longer collide with adjacent minecarts on separate tracks
The map owner's icon is now sorted to the top of the map
When elevated, directional blocks now always face upwards, regardless of the player's coordinates
Maps can now be held simultaneously in the main hand and offhand
Tree branches no longer cut through blocks when grown using bone meal
Experience can now be earned from cooking pork chops in a furnace
Enchanted apples can once again be found in loot chests
Name tags can once again be found from villager trading and fishing
Diamonds will now appear in the loot chests of jungle temples and strongholds
Players are no longer set on fire when walking on non-full blocks placed next to a lava source
Fixed player faces on maps so they no longer turn into arrows when they move too far from other players but will turn into arrows when close to other players
Pickaxes now break stone buttons faster than hands
Grass blocks will now turn into dirt if grass path blocks are placed above them
Fixed creative flight speed being too slow until changing altitude after entering a world
Bows can no longer be used to mine while charging and fully charged
Extra blocks will no longer be placed when placing a block straight down
Players can no longer attack through walls in third-person perspective
Increased the hitbox size of soul sand blocks
Crops can once again be harvested continuously
Fixed villager trade items not being replenished
Players can no longer attack others with bows when friendly fire is disabled
Glass panes now align to stair blocks
It is now possible to sleep when a skeleton horse is nearby
Redstone

Pistons no longer get into a state where they pause, activate randomly, and potentially crash the game
Sticky pistons and slime blocks can no longer pull and break comparators
Shulker boxes will no longer be dispensed as items if the dispenser is obstructed
Burned out redstone torches will no longer reactivate until they receive a block update or are replaced
Redstone now correctly powers adjacent blocks
Observers no longer visually cut redstone dust
Rails will now take block power into account when attaching to other rails
Dispensers, droppers, and redstone lamps will now activate properly when redstone dust is placed on top of them
Automated chicken cookers using slabs will now function properly
Trapped chests with slabs or stairs above no longer powers redstone dust adjacent to the block below it when the chest is open
Glazed terracotta can no longer be pushed using slime blocks and sticky pistons
Minecarts no longer get stuck when passing through blocks on diagonal rails
Armor can now be equipped on an armor stand using a dispenser
Mobs

Reduced the explosion range of creepers
Endermen that are aggravated will now take fall damage as they should, no longer breaking ender pearl farms
Mob spawners will now stop spawning when there are 6 or more mobs in the vicinity
Zombies and skeletons now burn during daytime in warm biomes when it's raining in other biomes
Fixed witches not spawning inside witch huts
Increased the spawn rate of ghasts in the Nether
Increased the spawn rate of ocelots
Spiders no longer give up so easily when attacking
Parrots will now properly dismount when the player it's riding dies
Parrots riding on players' shoulders will no longer hinder block placement while sneaking
Parrots will no longer leave player shoulders when boarding a boat
Llamas can now be healed by feeding them hay bales and wheat
Zombie villagers now produce red particles while being cured
Villagers will now breed on converted Xbox One worlds
Fixed some villager trades not granting xp
Overworld mobs will no longer spawn in the Nether on converted Xbox One worlds
Mobs can no longer spawn on carpet
Light will now prevent endermen from spawning in the End
Mobs will once again spawn when the player is below a height of 30 blocks
Iron golems will no longer turn hostile toward the player that spawned them
Crafting

Fixed an incorrect amount of wool blocks that can be dyed in the recipe book
Bucket, water Bucket, lava Bucket, and milk have been moved to the 'items' inventory tab
Graphical/Audio

The line is now properly connected to the fishing rod and floater
Maps are no longer cut off when being held on vertical split-screen
Fixed the sound effect not playing when equipping armor from the hotbar
The proper sound effects will now play when using ender chests, brewing stands, armor stands, and furnaces
Resource packs will now affect the look of the gamepad cursor
Rain is now visible through glass
TNT ignited by redstone now shows the hopping animation
Items held by zombie villagers are now in the right position
Undyed shulker boxes no longer flash when being placed
End crystal items now have the enchantment effect
Jungle leaves now have transparency when held in-hand
Fixed a missing piece of the hopper texture
Particles left after dragons breath attack and lingering potions no longer leave visual artifacts
Block breaking animation no longer goes out of sync when jumping or changing tools
Smooth lighting will now be changed immediately after toggling in settings
Flickering no longer occurs when looking through leaves that are next to snow
Slimes now emit slime particles when jumping
Sugar cane now has proper biome coloring
Fixed missing sound when moving through end gateways
Fixed the jumping animation for spiders
Fixed floating items that appeared after a player died and remained until they respawned when keep inventory was enabled
Fire, cobwebs, and leaves can no longer be seen through blocks at certain distances
Chests are now placed in item frames with the proper rotation
User Interface

Moving full stacks between containers is once again possible on pocket ui
Made it easier to invite friends to games by pressing X on the invite screen
Creative menu tabs can now be scrolled using the right thumbstick when the 'hide gamepad cursor' option is enabled
Selecting "sync worlds" no longer causes the selected button to dramatically shift up (Xbox One)
Removed unnecessary text from map tooltips in the inventory
Pressing the screen is no longer offset slightly to the left on Windows 10 Mobile
Disabling controller hints will now turn off hints on in-game menus
Fixed the creative hotbar not always clearing when X is pressed on the controller
When editing a page in book & quill, pressing B on the controller will now quit page edit mode instead of the whole book screen
Items can once again be deleted by dropping them into the gray space of the creative inventory screen
Fixed some worlds not appearing on the available templates list when not downloaded
Fixed the inventory cursor snapping incorrectly when highlighting the off-hand slot and click the left thumbstick
Fixed not being able to snap the inventory cursor between the furnace fuel slot and output slot
Expandable inventory groups in pocket ui are now titled properly
Shift-clicking items into a full donkey's chest will no longer cause the items to disappear
Navigating left or right on the templates list will no longer move focus to the top of the list
Fixed incorrect items appearing in creative inventory searches
Shulker box inventory tool tips are now properly translated to other languages
Text fields are no longer cleared when typing the letter "a" after typing any non-ascii characters
A loading screen will now appear when applying global resources
Fixed chat messages not appearing after signing in to Xbox Live in-game from the Achievements screen
The jukebox now has a controller tooltip for block use
Fixed a delay in the 'boost' button appearing when mounting a pig with carrot on a stick in hand
Fixed lowered frame rate when unfocusing from the book & quill
Sea lanterns now appear in the proper category when searching the inventory
Fixed double notifications appearing when importing a world
Commands

Pressing the menu button on the Xbox One controller will now execute quick commands
Teleporting entities to or from a ticking area no longer fail to render or be interacted with
Players will no longer receive an unknown map when using /replaceitem command to place a map in the off-hand slot
Items will now be received immediately and correctly when using '/give' command with a chain command block
Fixed 'End_gateway' and 'End_portal' having placeholder images in command auto-complete
Teleporting a horse while it's being ridden now works as intended


== beta 1.2.13.6 ==
Beta 1.2.13.6 is the second beta version released for 1.2.13 that fixed bugs.


=== Fixes ===
Fixed several crashes that occurred during regular gameplay.
Fixed a crash that occurred when opening the Furnace screen during vertical split-screen.
Fixed a crash that occurred when opening the Crafting Table screen while in Survival mode.


== beta 1.2.13.8 ==
Beta 1.2.13.8 is the third beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.2.13, released on March 16, 2018, which adds some of the Update Aquatic features through Experimental gameplay and fixes bugs.


=== Additions ===


==== Blocks ====
Slabs and stairs

Added slabs and stairs for prismarine, prismarine bricks, and dark prismarine.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.
Stripped logs

A barkless variant of logs.
Created by using an axe on a log.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.
Stripped wood

A barkless variant of wood.
Can only be placed with /setblock ~ ~ ~ stripped_<type>_log 3.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.


==== Items ====
Trident

Obtained by killing drowned.
Can be thrown or used as a melee weapon.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.
Spawn Egg

Drowned.


==== Mobs ====
Drowned

Spawn in oceans and rivers.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.


==== Gameplay ====
Enchantments

Channeling
Only has one level.
Used on tridents to summon a lightning bolt on impact with a mob during thunderstorms.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.
Impaling
Goes up to level V.
Used on tridents to deal more damage to players and mobs in water or rain.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.
Loyalty
Goes up to level III.
Used on tridents to make it return to the player when thrown.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.
Riptide
Goes up to level III.
Used on tridents to launch the player when thrown while in water or rain.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.
Swimming

Added a new swimming animation while sprinting in water.
Only available through Experimental gameplay.


=== Fixes ===
Iron golems no longer spawn when mob spawning is disabled.
Rain, smoke particles, and shadows are no longer visible through lava.
Disabling "Visible to LAN Players" for one world no longer disables it for all worlds.
Buttons cloned in a "pressed" state no longer remain pressed forever.
A warning now appears instructing not to close the game when exporting a world.
The power output of redstone comparators is no longer lost after a world is converted from Xbox One Edition.
Pick Block no longer replaces the item currently selected in the hotbar if other slots are empty.
Increased stability and fixed several crashes.
Mineshafts no longer generate above ground.
Fixed improper mushroom block obtained from giant red mushrooms when using Pick Block.
Tools now work properly and no longer shake in-hand.
Sticky pistons no longer turn into regular pistons after being renamed.
Tripwire hooks once again appear in jungle temples.
Players can once again stand on top of ladders.
Mob heads can no longer be duplicated by placing them in water.
Strongholds once again generate with mossy stone brick and cracked stone brick.
The maximum render distance on Xbox One X is once again 22 chunks.
More than one line of text can once again be placed on signs.
The B button no longer has to be pressed twice on the controller to deselect a skin in the Skin Picker.
Heads and skulls that are placed on a wall no longer have incorrect hitbox positions.
Invisible vines no longer appear on jungle trees.
Torches can once again be placed in the same block occupied by a player.
The player now descends more slowly in water.
Fixed world updates occasionally not rendering.
The player's hotbar is no longer filled with reserved6 in worlds last played during older versions of Pocket Edition.


== beta 1.2.13.10 ==
Beta 1.2.13.10 is the fourth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.2.13, released on March 16, 2018, which fixes one bug.


=== Fixes ===
Fixed an issue that caused named entities to lose their names when opening a world in beta.


== beta 1.2.13.11 ==
Beta 1.2.13.11 is the fifth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.2.13, released on March 20, 2018, which adds an option to swap A/B and X/Y buttons on controllers and fixes bugs.


=== Additions ===


==== General ====
Settings

Added two options to swap A/B and X/Y buttons on controllers, which can be found in Controller Settings.


=== Fixes ===
Fixed the cause of several crashes.
When Experimental Gameplay is enabled, tridents can now be enchanted.
Mobs will once again not spawn on transparent blocks like glass and fences.
Top snow falling on a top snow block no longer loses one layer.
Ladders can once again be placed in the same block occupied by a player.


== beta 1.2.13.12 ==
Beta 1.2.13.12 is the sixth and final beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.2.13, released on March 23, 2018, which makes one change.


=== Changes ===
Changed the back-end of the game to help the developers collecting crash reports that required a client-side fix.


== Notes and references ==


== Navigation ==