Beta 1.13.0.9 is the sixth beta version released for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, which adds brown mooshrooms, dead coral, suspicious stew, wither roses, and more.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
Dead coral

A dead variant of coral that is made when coral is placed on the surface or does not have water.
Can be placed on top of blocks.
Flowers

Added wither roses.
Can be crafted into black dye.
Inflict 1 second of the Wither effect to players and mobs around it, when in any difficulty besides Peaceful.
Are dropped or planted from any non-undead mob killed by the wither.
Note blocks

Added 11 new note block sounds:
Bone block = Xylophone
Block of gold = Bell
Clay = Flute
Packed ice = Chime
Wool = Guitar
Block of iron = Iron Xylophone
Soul sand = Cow Bell
Pumpkin = Didgeridoo
Block of emerald = Bit
Hay bale = Banjo
Glowstone = Pling


=== Items ===
Suspicious stew

Can be crafted with a red and brown mushroom, a bowl, and any flower.


=== Mobs ===
Brown mooshrooms

Spawn when a red mooshroom is struck by a lightning bolt.
Can be fed flowers then milked for a suspicious stew.


=== World generation ===
Villages

Added abandoned villages.
Re-added zombie villages but in use of the new village structures.


=== General ===
Credits

Added game credits.
These can be viewed after defeating the ender dragon, and also through a new button found in the Settings menu.
Patrols

Can now spawn in any biome except the Nether and mushroom fields.
Delay is now 10-11 minutes, instead of 5-6 minutes.
Now attack in swarms.
Raids

Added villager celebration for a successful raid defense.
Added illager celebration for an unsuccessful raid defense.
UI

Changed the sign in button size, reverting the size of Pocket Edition v0.16.0 Alpha.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Grass paths

Can now be found in the Creative inventory.
Item frames

Can now be placed on the top and bottom of blocks.


=== Items ===
Turtle eggs

Now have 2D textures in the inventory.


=== Mobs ===
Fish

Now drop experience when killed.
Players

Are now 1.8 blocks tall. (MCPE-31710)
Squid

Can now spawn in rivers.
Villagers

Can now heal if they have bread in their inventory.


=== General ===
How to Play

Added a section for structure blocks.
Tweaked the "Host and Player Options" section. (MCPE-28976)
Updated the section about taming cats. (MCPE-43490)
Map-making and add-ons

New data-driven items:
Turtle lightning interactions are now data-driven.
Pufferfish puffed states are now data-driven.
Brewing stand potion recipes are now data-driven.
Changed Breathable, RideTick, and Transformation systems to use ViewedEntityContext.
Added precompiled header targeting for ScriptAPI.
Significantly increased the maximum spawnRadius distance.


== Fixes ==
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
The game no longer appears frozen after starting a world.
Fixed crash from mismatched components/definitions from legacy actor updating.
Fixed a crash that could occur when trying to brew certain potions.
Fixed a crash that could occur on low and mid-end Android devices.
Fixed crash from missing component definition.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur after a guest tries to join a game through an invite.
The game no longer crashes when a split-screen player picks up log blocks.
Fixed a crashing issue that affected certain worlds when approaching spawn. (MCPE-46686)
Fixed a crash that could occur after changing the file storage location.
Running commands from a minecart with command block no longer crashes the game.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when trying to double tap on an item in the beacon UI.
Fixed a crash that would occur when dispensing bone meal onto a one-high flower. (MCPE-50760)
Fixed a crash that was sometimes occurring on some Android and iOS devices with lower memory.
Performance

Improved world loading times.
Optimized terrain light calculation.
Optimized FPS during gameplay on Xbox One.
Optimized the time taken to load mobs into the world.
General

The "We are being attacked!" and "I've got a bad feeling about this" achievements can now be unlocked. (MCPE-45060)
Powered rails placed using /fill should now work correctly when powered by redstone.
Fixed a download loop after purchasing certain content packs.
Using /setblock on a piston base no longer leaves an invisible piston arm.
When the player deletes a global resource pack, it now removes itself from the active stack.
The info at the top of the global resource pack screen now fits correctly when using various language settings.
Cloned active mob spawners now have an animated mob when placed. (MCPE-23106)
Fixed the "Multiplayer Restricted Skin!" error message that would pop up when trying to join a world before the skin had loaded in. (MCPE-48494)
Fixed an issue that was causing many small and empty villages to be created when trying to expand an existing village.
Fixed an infinite loading screen when opening the skin picker.
Fixed a missing armor layer for the "Tiny Footprints" Marketplace pack.
Gameplay

Fire Aspect swords no longer set Creative players on fire. (MCPE-14036)
Players can now teleport on top of non-full or transparent blocks when eating a chorus fruit.
Endermen holding red sand no longer drop regular sand when killed. (MCPE-25926)
Fixed an issue that prevented the player from moving while sneaking on top of shulkers or boats. (MCPE-44644)
Boat paddling animation now matches Java Edition and resynchronizes when paddling stops.
Lightning now strikes less frequently. (MCPE-38768)
The LT controller button can now be used to quickly equip or replace armor.
Players are now able to use items like fishing rods while aiming at nearby mobs.
Lightning from channeling trident now affects more than a single mob in a small area.
The player no longer keeps on rowing when opening the inventory UI during boat rides. (MCPE-36522)
Arrows now destroy armor stands properly. (MCPE-47785)
Flowers no longer become invisible in flower pots. (MCPE-40806)
Sneaking on redstone ore no longer triggers glow.
Breaking an extended piston in Creative no longer drops an item. (MCPE-37492)
Drinking sound for milk and potions now plays correctly. (MCPE-38340)
Mobs now drop armor and tools correctly. (MCPE-48891)
Nether wart now has a chance to drop more items when broken with Fortune tools. (MCPE-31107)
Animal breeding cooldowns no longer reset after reloading the world.
Explosions other than TNT now deal damage in water.
Parrots can now be picked in Creative using pick block.
Dispensers now place boats correctly.
Anvils now take damage correctly after use.
Mobs can now enter into boats and minecarts correctly. (MCPE-48596)
Buttons are now craftable from the recipe book.
Fixed the player's swimming state when exiting water.
Area of effect clouds such as lingering potions now work correctly if the world is set to 'Always Day'. (MCPE-39595)
Water dispensed from a dispenser no longer breaks end portals and gateways.
The beacon block can now suffocate players and mobs like other opaque blocks (when being clipped into when using a minecart, for example).
The player respawn location now favors shallow water rather than deep water.
Multiple ender dragons no longer spawn in the End if the player dies or moves away. (MCPE-37590)
Hoppers now pick up items from above correctly. (MCPE-31393)
The "Renewable Energy" achievement now unlocks correctly. (MCPE-39661)
Pillagers now spawn around pillager outposts more frequently. (MCPE-43396)
Player movement speed is no longer slowed down after stepping onto a shulker box from certain blocks.
The "Where have you been?" achievement now unlocks correctly on Android.
Placing and breaking blocks from within a boat now works correctly.
Mobs no longer drop fully repaired items. (MCPE-45953)
End gateway portals can no longer generate on the main obsidian platform in the End.
The locator map marker now points in the correct direction when riding a boat. (MCPE-50512)
Falling snow layers no longer break blocks in redstone contraptions. (MCPE-49773)
Players now receive stored XP from furnaces correctly. (MCPE-47324)
Maps are now drawn more quickly when exploring, meaning the "Map Room" achievement now unlocks more consistently. (MCPE-27720)
Mobs

Entity hit and collision boxes no longer exist during mob death animations. (MCPE-9999)
Wither skeletons are no longer affected by the Wither effect. (MCPE-46317)
Foxes now sleep and find cover during thunderstorms.
Mobs and entities are no longer slowed when walking one block above ice.
Baby zombies are now able to ride zombie pigmen. (MCPE-20163)
The wither no longer runs away from the player after being spawned.
Fixed the held sword position for vex mobs.
The phantom wing flapping animation is faster now. (MCPE-42935)
Endermen are correctly affected by invisibility effect when applied. (MCPE-44492)
Parrots can now fly over fences and walls.
Drowned on land now attack based on brightness levels rather than the time of day.
Mobs standing on slabs are no longer immune to sunlight damage after reloading the world. (MCPE-32822)
Witches no longer spawn in 1.8 high gaps. (MCPE-45935)
Cured zombie villagers now keep their trade level.
Zombies no longer become stuck on doors when pathfinding.
The parrot dancing animation is the correct speed now. (MCPE-48356)
Jockeys no longer get stuck trying to move to unreachable mounts.
Blocks

Barrier blocks no longer stop grass growth.
Farmland blocks now prevent grass growing underneath.
Items

Leaves collected with silk touch now stack correctly. (MCPE-32347)
Trapdoor items now have the correct inventory icon textures. (MCPE-44214)
Six-sided wood block variants can now be smelted or used as furnace fuel.
Items dropped from breaking blocks underwater now show bubbles.
Damaged elytra now have their own texture.
Fixed an issue that prevented certain items not being suggested in the recipe book correctly.
Items cooked on the campfire now stack together correctly. (MCPE-47684)
Graphical

The paper doll model now properly reloads animations when the app suspends and resumes.
The player model is now visible again while sleeping on a bed.
Improved the texture for the stonecutter with non-fancy graphics. (MCPE-42487)
Fixed the shield's blocking animation in third person view.
Iron bars no longer lose some of their textures when surrounded by other bars. (MCPE-47324)
Fixed the smooth player sneaking animation. (MCPE-49586)
The screen now fades to black when sleeping in a bed.
Leads rendered in the structure block UI no longer stretch really far away.
Added correct hue to the ender dragon's death animation.
User interface

Fixed incorrect tooltip text showing for various potions.
Keyboard inputs now work correctly when the game loads out of window focus.
Fixed HUD positioning after sleeping on VR immersive mode.
Fixed the "Open Chat" message for touch screen devices.
Flight controls no longer show when sleeping in a bed in creative. (MCPE-44928)
Commands

Pistons with data values 6 and 7 can no longer be placed using slash commands. (MCPE-21558)
Using the /clear @p item now clears correctly auxiliary values.
Players can no longer use the /spawnpoint command in the Nether dimension.
Using the /replaceitem command now works correctly with barrels. (MCPE-48184)
The /clear command now works correctly with damageable items.
Running the "/clear" command message now shows correct amount of items removed. (MCPE-34750)
Carpet is now removed correctly when using the "/clear" command.
Add-ons and script engine

Fixed the death override event firing twice when leaving a world from the death screen.
Fixed `minecraft:scale` component failing to scale certain Actor models.
Running the "tick_world" component now removes ticking areas correctly and consistently.
Fixed double damage events being sent when mobs are hurt by non-magic.
Behavior pack animations now run correctly when set.
The timer component now works on projectiles.
"minecraft:spell_effects" no longer trigger a second time incorrectly.
Fixed player entity components that were not getting added.
Added stone slab aliases to allow backward compatibility on Marketplace maps.


== References ==


== Navigation ==