Beta 1.8.0.11 is the third beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.8.0, released on October 24, 2018, which makes some changes to pandas and fixes several bugs.


== Changes ==


=== Mobs ===
Pandas

All default pandas now bite once when attacked.
Aggressive pandas now defend other pandas.
Changed aggressive panda skin.
Now broadcast their anger to aggressive pandas.
Aggressive pandas will now defend baby pandas that get hit.


== Fixes ==
Fixed several crashes that occurred during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that occurred when joining multiplayer servers.
The player's arm now moves at the correct speed when breaking blocks. (MCPE-38041)
Custom entities can now correctly use the minecraft:shooter component. (MCPE-38263)
Players can now correctly use scaffolding that is in or near water. (MCPE-38054)
Flight controls on mobile devices now work correctly after climbing scaffolding. (MCPE-38059)
Fixed a bug that caused horses (and variants) to show flashing colors on certain devices. (MCPE-31726)
Fixed a bug that caused a significant performance drop when rendering chunks. (MCPE-37192)
Gamerule commands can now only be changed by operators.
Falling blocks (such as sand) will no longer cause scaffolding extensions to fall. (MCPE-38098)
Fixed a bug that could result in the player's spawn point being changed inadvertently.
Pressing the "Go Back" button in "Turn Off Achievements" window no longer changes the game mode in World Settings.
Pandas no longer become stuck in a sitting position after reloading the world. (MCPE-38278)
Newly equipped player skins now apply correctly to the paper-doll model.
Endermen will no longer have a missing jaw.
Blocks now disappear more quickly when broken quickly in creative.
Search results in the Marketplace are now more consistent when searching through all content.
Only templates are suggested in the "Get More Templates" menu now.
Using a bucket of fish in a dispenser no longer crashes the game. (MCPE-38194)
Dyed beds now have the correct crafting recipe.
Fixed the bug where the player would unexpectedly turn in a random direction. (MCPE-35910)
Double slabs will now create the correct type of block. (MCPE-38107)
Fixed a bug where the world could crash if the player exited the world whilst using a nether portal.
Selecting an unowned skin now directs you to the expanded skin picker menu.


== References ==


== Navigation ==