1.17.10 is a minor update to Bedrock Edition released on July 13, 2021, which added candles, brought additional parity with Java Edition, experimental features for 1.18.0 and fixed bugs.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
Candle

Crafted with honeycomb and string.
Comes with 16 dyed types and a yellowish non-dyed type.
Can be lit by any item that produces fire.
Up to 4 can be placed in a single block, similar to sea pickles, for a maximum light level of 12.
Only candles of the same color can be placed on the same block.
Only one can be placed on an uneaten cake and lit.
If any of the cake is consumed, the candle pops off.


=== Command format ===
/dialogue

Used to create multi-page dialogues with branching narratives for NPCs via dialogue JSON files.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Azalea and Flowering Azalea

Can be placed inside flower pots.
Block of Quartz, Crafting Table, Polished Blackstone Bricks, Cracked Polished Blackstone Bricks, and Sculk Sensor

Changed the textures to match Java Edition.
Blue Ice and Enchanting Table

No longer emits light.
Rooted Dirt

The texture of rooted dirt is now randomly rotated, matching the behavior of the regular dirt block.
Signs

Glowing text on signs now has an outer glow, making text in dark colors more visible in the dark.


=== Items ===
Dried Kelp, Netherite Axe, Netherite Boots, Netherite Hoe, Netherite Ingot, Netherite Pickaxe, and Netherite Sword

Changed the textures to match Java Edition.


=== Mobs ===
Axolotl

When fed with a bucket of tropical fish, it will now return to a water bucket instead of a bucket.
Axolotl's hitbox is now smaller to match the size of the mob.
Axolotls no longer move their tails while playing dead.
Drowned

Drowned attack any nearby axolotl on sight, if the axolotl is not playing dead.
Goat

Tempted goats now move at the same speed as goats in Java Edition.
Goat fall damage reduction is now in parity with Java Edition. (-10 reduced fall damage)
Guardian and Elder Guardian

Guardians and Elder Guardians fire their lasers at axolotls when the axolotls are not playing dead.
Skeleton

Skeletons now turn into strays after 20 seconds inside powder snow, instead of 45 seconds.


=== Non-mobs entities ===
End Crystal

Changed the models to have three cubes again instead of two, and to match Java Edition.


=== World generation ===
Bastion remnants

Chest loot has been changed.
Loot overall was improved; rarer items had their weights increased and many item amounts were increased. Many pools had their rolls increased as well.
Removed all "empty" loot entries.
Most items with damage had their average durability increased.
Added enchanted golden axes, golden carrots, enchanted golden apples, and blocks of iron to various loot tables.
Removed iron nuggets from treasure chests.
Unenchanted diamond armor in treasure chests is no longer damaged.


=== General ===
Realms

Added three world upload slots.
One world can be active at a time and can be switched between the three world slots.
Settings

Added a new accessibility icon in the Settings menu.
Splashes

Added the following splash text from Java 1.17-pre1:
"[this splash text has been delayed until part 2]"
"Contains simulated goats!"
"Home-made!"
"There's <<a cat on ,my keyboard!~" [sic]
"The cutest predator you'll ever meet!"
"Now you are thinking with pistons!"
"Get to the coppah!"
"Board game version also available!"
"Honey, I waxed the copper!"
"Plant-based light sources!"
"Made by "real" people!"


=== Technical ===
General

Added query.show_bottom - a query for determining whether or not the entity's bottom is rendered.
Added query.death_time - a query for determining the elapsed ticks since a mob started dying.
Added math.min_angle - a math expression for minimizing the angle magnitude (in degrees) into the range [-180, 180].
Chunks

Limits writing of chunks unless necessary. Chunks upgraded from older formats will not automatically save when loaded, but when modified (Through blocks or actors, for example) they will be marked for saving
Gameplay

Loot chests with Seed = 0 now correctly randomize if placed on the same coordinates.
Note that pick blocking a Vanilla loot chest before opening it will now result in identical loot in each copy unless the player set the seed to 0 in the NBT.
Data Driven Mobs

Ender dragon and End crystal rendering and animations are now fully data-driven.
The horse rendering and animations are now fully data-driven.
This work supports all horse variants (horse, mule, donkey, zombie horse, skeleton horse) and all horse versions
Graphics

Graphics hardware that supports a maximum D3D11 feature level of 9_3 or below are no longer supported.
Stability and Performance

Added better error handling for JSON parsing. Also added several new content errors for item parsing as well as for loot tables.
Actors

Incoming client-sync properties for newly seen types will properly register with client-side Actor Property Manager groups.


== Experimental ==
These additions and changes are accessible by enabling the "Caves & Cliffs" and "Enable GameTest Framework" experimental toggle.


=== General ===
Added the Caves & Cliffs experimental toggle for non-beta users.


=== Blocks ===
Sculk Sensor

A redstone component that detects vibrations.
Currently, it does not generate naturally, but natural generation is planned for future versions.
Senses vibrations such as block placement, footsteps, and projectiles, and emits a redstone signal.
 Emits particles when it senses a vibration nearby.
A comparator connected to it emits different signal strengths based on what caused the signal.
Does not detect ambient weather such as rain.


=== Items ===
Goat Horn

Dropped by a goat if it rams into a block.
When used for a short period of time, it makes a sound identical to the horn heard during raids.


=== World generation ===
Caves

Completely overhauled.
Now stretch down to Y=-62.
Biomes inside of caves introduced such as dripstone caves and lush caves.
Contain aquifers, bodies of water with different heights, independent of sea level (Y=63).
Aquifers below Y=0 sometimes generate with lava instead of water.
Improved old caves to blend in with the new generations of caves better.
New noise caves, coming in 2 forms, cheese, and spaghetti.
The original caves still exist with their generation slightly tweaked to better blend in with noise caves.
Cheese caves have large stone towers stretching from the bottom of the cave to the top.
Very large, often large enough to fly with an elytra.
Abundant with aquifers and ores.
Spaghetti caves are long, thin caves that have small aquifers and are more similar to original caves.
Mineshafts

Mineshaft pieces no longer generate if they were fully floating in the air.
Corridors now generate with wooden logs as pillars for support, or chains and oak fences as hanging support if needed.
Cobwebs no longer generate floating without an adjacent block.
Mountains

Height-dependent generation.
Revamped, featuring some new small spruce trees on the slopes and ice and packed ice above the peaks.
Contain goats, rabbits, snow blocks, snow layers, and powder snow.
Iron ore, emerald ore, and coal ore are found in abundance.
Emerald ore no longer generates in blobs of only one.
Can generate up to Y=256.
Generates with new sub biomes.
Ore distribution

Changed ore generation of all ores making them have a spread value like lapis lazuli ore. Some still retain a linear generation alongside a spread generation.
Coal ore, emerald ore, and copper ore no longer generate below Y=0.
Copper ore generates between the Y=0 and Y=96 and like all other ores, uses spread. It peaks at Y=48.
Emerald ore generates above Y=32 as a spread, peaking at Y=256 and decreasing in quantity as the altitude decreases.
Coal ore attempts to generate twice: once, evenly between an altitude of Y=136 and Y=256; and as a spread, peaking at an altitude of Y=96 and generating between an altitude of Y=0 and Y=192.
Other ores also generate differently.
Iron ore attempts to generate three times: once as a spread peaking at an altitude of Y=256, generating above Y=128; another as a spread peaking at Y=16 and generating with a minimum height of Y=-24 and a maximum height of Y=57, and a smaller one spreading evenly between the altitudes of Y=-64 and Y=-32.
Gold ore generates between the altitudes of Y=-64 and Y=32, peaking at Y=-16. The extra gold that generates in the badlands biome was left untouched.
Lapis lazuli ore attempts to generate twice: once, as a spread between the altitudes of Y=32 and Y=-32, peaking at an altitude of 0; and evenly between the altitudes of Y=64 and Y=-64, generating buried like ancient debris.
Redstone ore attempts to generate twice: once, evenly between an altitude of Y=15 and Y=-64; and as a spread, peaking at an altitude of -64 and generating below an altitude of Y=-32.
Diamond ore now generate as a spread, generating below Y=16 and peaking at altitudes near y=-64.
Tweaked size and positioning of diorite, andesite, and granite generation.
Pockets of diorite, granite, and andesite are now larger and more spherical but less common.


==== Biomes ====
Dripstone Caves

Can naturally generate in the world.
Contains pointed dripstone (both stalactites and stalagmites) and dripstone blocks.
Dripstone clusters are abundant here, often forming pillars.
Lush Caves

Can naturally generate in the world.
Contain moss, moss carpet, spore blossom, glow berry vines, big dripleaf and small dripleaf.
Moss covers the ceilings and floors.
Clay pools generate inside.
Mountains

Come in 5 sub-biomes:
Mountain Meadow
The lowest layer of a mountain.
Contain flowers and sweet berry bushes.
Mountain Grove
The second lowest layer of a mountain.
Covered in snow, snow blocks, and powder snow, and is filled with spruce trees.
Rabbits spawn in this biome.
Snowy Slopes
The second highest layer of a mountain.
Covered in snow, snow blocks, powder snow, and ice.
Lofty Peaks
The highest layer of a mountain, and will only generate if the mountain is high enough.
Generates if the surrounding biomes are too warm for snow-capped peaks.
Covered in snow and ice.
Snow Capped Peaks
The highest layer of a mountain, and will only generate if the mountain is high enough.
Generates if the surrounding biomes are too cold for lofty peaks.
Covered in snow, snow blocks, powder snow, ice, and packed ice.


=== Technical ===
GameTest Framework

Updated the /clearall command to also clear tests outside of loaded areas
Dimension
getEntitiesAtBlockLocation(location : BlockLocation) : Entity[]
Returns an array of all entities at the given block location
spawnEntity(identifier : String, location : BlockLocation) : Entity
Spawns an entity with the given identifier at the given block location
[Removed] function getName()
property id : String
Gets the entity's identifier
property nameTag : String
Gets or sets the entity's name tag
Player
property name : String
Gets the player's name
method getPlayers() : Player[]
Returns all players in the server
Updates to how blocks are handled in APIs:
BlockType, BlockPermutation, and Block instances replace BlockState-based updating
Exposed chest block component and Container
Added location and velocity read-only properties to Entity
function createExplosion(location : Location, radius : number, explosionOptions : ExplosionOptions)
Creates an explosion
ExplosionOptions : class
Provides additional configuration parameters for createExplosion
method triggerEvent(eventName : string)
Triggers an event on an entity
Added thenExecuteFor to GameTestSequence, which repeatedly calls the callback for the specified number of ticks
Events
Renamed World.event.weatherChanged to World.event.changeWeather
Added event World.event.addEffect
Fires when an effect is applied to an entity.
Added event World.event.createEntity
Fires when an entity is added to the world.
Removed function World.addEventListener
Changed function 'getDuration()' to property 'duration'
Changed function 'getAmplifier()' to property 'amplifier'
Added property displayName
Gets the display name of the effect


== Fixes ==
Performance / Stability

Fixed a crash that could occur if a structure was placed with a command in an unloaded area and that structure was deleted
Gameplay

Underwater fog is once again dependent on biome and appears as it should (MCPE-124266)
Fixed a bug that could cause Nether Portals to sometimes take players to the wrong coordinates (MCPE-115933)
Fixed split-screen players not able to rename items on Anvils (MCPE-108405)
Thunderstorms now happen as often as Java Edition (MCPE-72798)
Bastion loot now closely matches Java Edition (MCPE-104330)
Players can no longer swim through the air under a platform, though it looked pretty cool (MCPE-48958)
Fixed players going through Cobwebs taking fall damage before hitting the ground (MCPE-121550)
Descending through Powder Snow with touch controls now uses the same button as descending through Scaffolding
Fixed an issue that was causing the player's head to not animate properly with emotes (MCPE-126902)
Mobs

Empty Buckets can no longer be used to collect Fish
Axolotls no longer move their tails while playing dead (MCPE-123309)
Feeding Axolotls with Bucket of Tropical Fish now returns a Water Bucket instead of an empty Bucket (MCPE-127382)
Axolotls now only spawn in complete darkness to prevent spawning in unwanted places
The hitbox on Axolotls is now smaller to match the size of the mob
Drowned, Guardians and Elder Guardians now attack Axolotls on sight
Skeletons now turn into Strays after 20 seconds in Powder Snow, reduced from 45 seconds
Strays no longer drop Wither Skeleton Skulls when killed by Charged Creepers (MCPE-35876)
Burning mobs can no longer destroy Powder Snow when the Mob Griefing world option is disabled (MCPE-221842)
Tempted Goats now move at the same speed as goats in Java Edition, and other similar mobs that are being tempted (MCPE-123261)
When Goats are performing a ram attack, mobs no longer retaliate against the Goats (MCPE-129619)
Goat fall damage reduction is now in parity with Java Edition (-10 reduced fall damage)
Goats can now continue ramming when on Slime Blocks and Honey Blocks
Baby Sea Turtles no longer despawn after being hatched (MCPE-70664)
Baby Horses, including their variants, are now taller and no longer exhibit Z-fighting from their legs (MCPE-92462)
Iron Golems and Evokers are no longer sometimes aggressive on Peaceful difficulty (MCPE-47012)
Amphibious mobs no longer get stuck when pathing over slabs and Daylight Sensors
Attacked Glow Squids no longer go dark only for the aggressor in multiplayer sessions
Glow Squid now darkens to match the surrounding light level when hurt (MCPE-121754)
Villagers spawned from Villager spawners on Marketplace worlds that were created after version 1.11 now correctly spawn as V2 villagers
Fixed a warning that could appear in split-screen when encountering Guardians
Blocks

Falling Anvils and Stalactites now deal damage to mobs when landing in liquid
Azaleas can now be Bone Mealed when placed on Clay
Using Pick Block on Azalea Leaves and Flowering Azalea Leaves now results in the correct blocks being picked (MCPE-128092)
Hanging Roots are now destroyed by water (MCPE-121676) (MCPE-127677)
Lightning Rods no longer break falling blocks that land on them (MCPE-116545)
Rooted Dirt texture is now randomly rotated, matching the behavior of regular Dirt blocks (MCPE-123197)
Small Dripleaf now only drops itself when broken with Shears
Glow Lichen now only drops itself when broken with Shears
Jukeboxes now only eject Music Disks into non-solid blocks (MCPE-85635)
Items

Projectiles, such as Snowballs and Eggs, no longer cast shadows
All dropped items now have a similar floating height
Disenchanting an item using the Grindstone once again resets the enchantment cost penalty correctly (MCPE-107211)
Data-driven items now swing faster when not targeting blocks (MCPE-119702)
Firework Rockets obtained from '/replaceitem' command now have a flight duration (MCPE-109037)
Firework Stars obtained from '/replaceitem' command now have proper color values (MCPE-109037)
Glowing text on Signs now has an outline (MCPE-129123)
Black text on Signs can now be lit by using a Glow Ink Sac (MCPE-128079)
Tooltips are now present when holding Ink Sac and Glow Ink Sac when using a controller
Ink Sac and Glow Ink Sac can no longer be used indefinitely on signs in Adventure mode
Players can no longer dye text on Signs in Adventure mode (MCPE-126489)
Pumpkins are once again accepted by Farmer Villagers regardless of their rotation when mined (MCPE-105540)
User Interface

Glow Item Frame is now placed after regular Item Frame in the Creative inventory (MCPE-117532)
Copper Ore is now placed after other Overworld ores in the Creative inventory (MCPE-119724)
Deepslate is now placed after other stones in the Creative inventory (MCPE-127592)
Hotbar item tooltip duration now scales with the length of the tooltip's text
Added a new Accessibility icon in the Settings menu
Items can now be previewed in the Character Creator and equipped using the Equip button
Added Equip button to Classic Skins and Capes tabs
The profile screen reload button is now properly localized to all supported languages
The "Reset to Default" button in the Accessibility settings now resets the Text Background Opacity slider
Fixed a typo in the "Loom" section of "How to Play" (MCPE-128735)
The counters on empty tabs of the Play screen now display zero instead of an empty, grey box (MCPE-110535)
Featured Item thumbnails now fit within the Featured Items window in Character Creator
When not signed into a Microsoft Account, players are now presented with a button prompting them to sign in on the Play screen so that they can view Realms
Realms Plus content expiration timers now appear properly
Realms Plus timers now only appear within 30 days of expiring
Commands

'/title clear' now correctly clears the title and subtitle from the HUD (MCPE-97636)
Frosted Ice can now be used in any command that accepts a block, such as '/setblock' and '/testforblock' (MCPE-126741)


== References ==


== Navigation ==