Beta 1.11.0.5 is the fourth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.11.0, released on March 14, 2019, which changes some textures and fixes bugs.


== Changes ==


=== General ===
Settings

Text to Speech now reads all dialog boxes and in-game notifications.
Raids

If all villagers are killed or if all beds are destroyed during a raid, all players in the village now receive Bad Omen.
Texture Update

Added even more new textures to blocks and items, such as stained glass, grass blocks, and status effect icons.
User interface

Changed the user interface background from gray to transparent black.


== Fixes ==
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that could occur when importing a 1.10 beta world with Experimental Gameplay disabled.
Fixed a crash that could occur when villagers died.
Raids

Removed the placeholder explosion sound when a raid ends.
A directional horn sound now plays to help find remaining raiders.
Fixed the boss bar not emptying when a raid wave was completed.
Fixed raids not starting on Android devices.
Raids no longer break when switching to Peaceful difficulty, then back to Normal.
Raiding mobs now attack players that attack them.
Raiding mobs now move through water to get to a village.
Raiding mobs can no longer spawn on leaves.
Ravagers can now spawn with evokers riding them during raids.
Witches now have a higher priority to move into villages during raids.
Removed particles around players that have Hero of the Village.
Improved spawn locations of mobs during raids.
General

Text to Speech audio prompts no longer overlap one other.
Text to Speech now properly reads controller bindings.
World generation

Fences generated in water in villages are now surrounded with water.
Trees no longer spawn one block above the ground in village animal pens.
Mobs

Fixed some sleepwalking villagers.
Mobs can now path their way through waterlogged blocks, such as seagrass. (MCPE-37005)
Wither skeletons and guardians once again spawn in the world. (MCPE-42922)
Updated supply values for various villager trades.
Wandering traders no longer change their offers after exiting and re-entering a world.
Iron golems that spawn in a village now retaliate against attacking players.
Improved ravager pathfinding.
Villagers now take breaks every once in a while.
Pillagers no longer float in mid-air after killing a ravager with a riding pillager.
Blocks

XP can now be stored for auto smelters using blast furnaces and smokers.
TNT once again launches away from an explosion. (MCPE-42731)
Added a placeholder sound for villagers interacting with the fletching table.
Happy villager particles now appear over a job site block when it is claimed by a villager or angry particles when a villager cannot reach the block.
Items

Maps once again show underwater terrain differences. (MCPE-40740)
User interface

The output slot of the cartography table no longer overlaps the text field with Pocket UI on Android devices.
Selecting a trade on the left side of the trading screen with a controller now completes a trade.
The outline of the saddle item on the horse inventory screen now matches the new saddle texture.
Fixed the lack of controller tooltip for interacting with the lectern.
The loom screen now displays banner patterns correctly when using HD texture packs.
Fixed overlapping boss bars when using touch devices.
Trades no longer auto-populate the trade input slot.
Villager trades that are locked no longer appear until the villager levels up.


== References ==


== Navigation ==