Bedrock Editor v1.1.0 is a release for the Bedrock Editor released in Preview on August 19, 2025, and in retail on September 30, 2025.


== Additions ==
Added new Flatten Tool functionality.
Added new Flatten mode to Terrain Tool, and new FlattenSmoothing, FlattenIntensity, and FloorBlockOverride properties.
Added two new Flatten sub-modes: Flatten Up and Flatten Both.
Added ability to hide rotation controls within Cylinder Brush Shape.
Added Cylinder Brush Shape property getters for width, depth, height, radius, and isUniform.
Removed old Flatten Tool, along with its FlattenHeight and FlattenRadius properties.
Added a gizmo to the center of freehand and smart tool.
Added new ProjectAfterEvents API to global editor object for project wide events.
Added a new button in export settings that sets the current position in Overworld as world spawn point for the playable world.


== Changes ==
Updated the brush API to now specify a specific or relative position of the 'front face' of a block. You can also force the brush to apply a specific state to the block after its been placed.
Updated paused entity state to persist through sessions for each project world.
Updated Ruler Tool to support click-and-drag. Holding Ctrl while clicking will create additional rulers. Rulers will no longer disappear when switching to other tools.
Updated Terrain Tool by consolidating Flatten and Elevation into one tool and improved functionality.
Removed PBR Fallout Settings from Vibrant Visuals Settings.


== Fixes ==
Fixed issue that prevents dragging nodes to be placed on a desired position.
Fixed issue with distance between nodes while dragging. There should be a minimum predefined distance between nodes so two nodes cannot be placed on the same position.
Fixed a bug that caused revert button in Vibrant Visuals panel settings to not function.
Fixed Vibrant Visuals settings to have proper formatting after being copied to clipboard.
Fixed a bug that caused Paste Preview offset to be incorrect after switching back from another modal tool.
Fixed a bug that caused difficulty setting not applying correctly while exporting a playable world.
Fixed a bug that caused weather setting not applying correctly while exporting a playable world.
Fixed a bug that caused Smart Fill to highlight air when blocks are replaced with air block.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==