Beta 1.13.0.5 is the fourth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, released on August 7–12, 2019, which fixes bugs.


== Fixes ==
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash on Xbox One that could sometimes occur when signing out of an Xbox Live account.
Fixed an issue that could sometimes result in the app not responding when loading on Android.
Fixed a crash that could occur when interacting with custom entities.
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur after sleeping in a bed.
Applying a resource pack to a Realm no longer causes the game to freeze.
Performance

Optimized game loading on Android devices, which also fixes the game sometimes showing an “App Not Responding” message when trying to launch the game.
General

VR - When the player goes to sleep and wakes up in immersion mode, the HUD is now positioned correctly, and axe animations work again.
Tweaked the Marketplace layout to prevent overlapping information.
Controller mapping no longer shows incorrectly as "unassigned".
Gameplay

Armor, weapons, and tools are once again suggested in the recipe book.
Mobs once again drop equipment as loot. (MCPE-48891)
Fixed an issue with breaking blocks when boarding a boat or holding a bow or crossbow.
Mobs no longer drop fully repaired items as loot. (MCPE-45953)
End gateway portals no longer generate on the main obsidian platform in the End.
Arrows are no longer fired backwards when shooting at the ground.
Leaves on trees no longer get cut off on chunk boundaries during terrain generation.
Players can no longer push lit TNT entities.
Mobs

Dolphins now follow players in boats.
Fish and dolphins with 'FollowFlock' goal state no longer stop moving in the water. (MCPE-47868)
Fixed fishing float texture. (MCPE-49727)
Fixed elytra left wing flipped model issue. (MCPE-49589)
Graphical

Fixed the arm movement animation when switching between items in first person view. (MCPE-47939)
Fixed the player missing right arm issue in VR mode.
User interface

Resized the highlighted area in the create world menu, which was slightly too big.
Add-ons and script engine

Fixed player entity components (eg. minecraft:damage_sensor) that were not getting added.
Fixed dog fetching mechanic on Dogs Marketplace content.
Custom player armor now renders correctly in some Marketplace content worlds.


== References ==


== Navigation ==