1.16.20 is a minor update to Bedrock Edition released on August 11, 2020, which adds piglin brutes, as well as changes to sounds, block behaviors, technical changes, and fixes bugs.


== Additions ==


=== Items ===
Spawn eggs

Added piglin brute spawn egg.


=== Mobs ===
Piglin brutes

Stronger variants of piglins that wield golden axes.
Have 50HP × 25 health.
Spawn only in bastion remnants.
Unlike piglins, always hostile toward the player, even when the player is wearing golden armor.
Can spawn in Peaceful difficulty.


=== General ===
Added a prompt messages for older devices to notify the discontinuation of Gear VR, Windows 10 Mobile, Android devices with less than 768MB of RAM, iOS devices running iOS 10 or below, and video cards that support only DirectX 10.1 or below.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Crimson planks and warped planks

Now play wood sounds when being placed and stepped on.
Furnaces

Breaking a furnace now gives the experience for the smelted things inside.
Soul campfire

Now emits a light level of 10.
Vines, twisting vines, and weeping vines

Now play sounds when climbed.
Walls

Now connect to glass and trapdoors.


=== Items ===
Netherite

Now floats on lava.
Netherite armor

Now has its own sounds when equipping.


=== Mobs ===
Hoglins

No longer attack players in Peaceful mode when being too close to them.
Zoglins

Now have their own sounds.
Piglins

Now spawn on Peaceful difficulty.
The attack animation of unarmed piglins has been changed.
The attack animation has been changed, now uses vindicator attack, rather than zombie attack.
Vindicators

The attack animation of unarmed vindicators has been changed.


=== World generation ===
Bastion remnants

Piglin brutes can now spawn in bastion remnants.


=== General ===
Inventory

Recipe Select button prompt shows when hovering over a non-craftable recipe book item using controller (MCPE-79725).
Recipe selected items put in crafting input grid can now be hovered over with controller to see their tooltip names.
On controller, hovering over recipes now show them in the crafting grid when no recipe is selected.
On controller, the player can deselect a selected recipe when hovering above that selection in the recipe book, and also clear the crafting grid by clicking the right thumbstick.


== Fixes ==
Performance / Stability

Fixed a crash that occurred on PlayStation 4 due to other players using custom skins
Fixed a crash that could occur when pressing the Manage Account button in Profile settings
Loom blocks no longer cause an out of memory crash when using high resolution resource packs (MCPE-69848)
General

Worlds can once again be uploaded to Realms on Nintendo Switch (REALMS-474)
Players can once again host 8 max player worlds on PlayStation 4 (MCPE-85009)
Fixed an issue where the Hot Tourist Destination trophy would not unlock after visiting the last required Nether biome on PlayStation 4 (MCPE-85496)
Meeting requirements for some achievements offline now unlocks it after reconnecting
Custom skins once again work properly in multiplayer (MCPE-48207)
Emotes can no longer be equipped before unlocking them (MCPE-84810)
Fixed notifications not appearing on iOS
Gameplay

Breaking a furnace now drops the stored experience from smelting (MCPE-71651)
Boats are no longer slowed down by objects with no collision (MCPE-81316)
Legacy chunk upgrades no longer causes chunks to become 100% air (MCPE-58514)
New Nether biomes, blocks, and structures no longer generate into worlds with a fixed version (MCPE-66357)
Parity: Fixed chests with loot tables not generating loot until opened or destroyed
Local split-screen players can once again see the ender dragon and Ender crystals (MCPE-67596)
The bounding box of the player used for spawning is now the correct size, so we don't think a player is in a dangerous spot when they are actually safe
Mobs

Mobs max spawn radius is now 44 blocks at sim distance 4 (MCPE-79359)
Zombies can spawn underground again (MCPE-52743)
Dolphins, fish, and squid now spawn in bubble columns again (MCPE-73967)
Baby pigs now despawn properly (MCPE-76373)
Hoglins no longer attack on Peaceful mode when too close (MCPE-71939)
Piglins and brutes can now spawn with enchanted weapons (MCPE-83536)
Piglins now spawn on Peaceful difficulty
Piglins no longer naturally spawn on shroomlights
Piglin arms are now behaving more like the players arms and less like zombie arms (MCPE-74089)
Piglins killed with a single blow while admiring gold ingots now drop the admired gold ingot
Gold ingots given to baby piglins are no longer consumed
Piglins no longer drop up to a full stack of gold ingots upon giving them one by right-clicking and reloading a world while they are admiring it, instead it drops something from its loot table
Piglins no longer pick up entire stacks of gold (MCPE-76080)
Piglins no longer spawn with enchanted gear
Tweaked arm animation for mobs that have their weapons removed (MCPE-83581)
Tamed wolves no longer disappear when returning to overworld through a Nether portal
Husks now prefer iron armor over chain armor
Blocks

Walls now connect to open trapdoors (MCPE-79490)
Walls now connect to glass blocks (MCPE-79483)
Pressure plates have been fixed to have no collision again (MCPE-80276)
Melon and pumpkin stems now break again when the block below them is destroyed (MCPE-79577)
Slime blocks pushed by pistons launch players correctly again (MCPE-62419)
Fixed an issue that prevented players from being able to place beehives or bee nests from their inventory after an update (MCPE-62067)
Soul campfires now emit the correct light level (MCPE-73890)
Hyphae blocks now take as long as stem blocks to destroy (MCPE-72045)
Quartz nlock can no longer be created from chiseled quartz block and pillar quartz block in a furnace
Fixed recipes when crafting a barrel from warped or crimson slabs
Quartz bricks can no longer be crafted from anything but quartz blocks on the stonecutter
Target block's zones for particular redstone signal strength are no longer misplaced because of old arrow geometry
Setting soul sand on fire no longer produces a placeholder soul fire block on pre-Nether version locked content
Items

Netherite items no longer bounce on lava (MCPE-65372)
Using bone meal on flowers or grass blocks no longer consumes the item if nothing can grow (MCPE-73889)
Fixed issues around duplicating items when reloading a world while Piglin is admiring an item
Audio

Zoglins now have sounds distinct from pigs (MCPE-73220)
Netherite armor now has a unique sound when equipped (MCPE-69047)
Climbing vines now plays sound (MCPE-69741)
Corrected sound for placing Nether wart
Placing or stepping on warped or crimson processed materials or planks now make wood sounds (MCPE-69029)
Ambient cave sounds are no longer played in Marketplace content prior to 1.16
User Interface

Wither health bar no longer depletes to zero after half of the health is gone (MCPE-79661)
Wither health bar now reappears when returning from another dimension
The 'Open' tooltip is no longer displayed when looking at piglins (MCPE-79376)
Speed of credits roll is no longer dependent on framerate
Commands

Fixed an issue with several commands being used while cheats were disabled
Made using the /fill command more efficient, improving performance
Using the /locate command to find a ruined portal no longer returns placeholder text (MCPE-79323)
The /clear command now correctly removes all blocks with the same block name when no data argument is passed in
Making command selectors use the current position of an actor rather than the previous position of an actor
Fixed an issue that could cause command blocks to stop working unexpectedly
Add-Ons

Updated piglin geometry and entity files: Fixed issue with scaling carried item for baby humanoid mobs
Accessing a beacon no longer spams the content log with warnings (MCPE-66357)
The rider_can_interact field on minecraft:rideable is now used again
Behavior animation components no longer try to reload after a suspend resume and a mob/player rides something
Drowned geometry is no longer broken in content packs


== See also ==
Java Edition 1.16.2


== References ==


== Navigation ==