Beta 1.19.0.26 (Windows, Android, Xbox) or Preview 1.19.0.27 (Windows, iOS, iPadOS, Xbox) is the third beta/Preview version for Bedrock Edition 1.19.0, released on April 20, 2022, which introduces new music, adds ranged attack for wardens, revamps ancient cities, and fixes bugs.


== Additions ==


=== General ===
Music

Added new music, all by Lena Raine.
"Ancestry" only plays in the deep dark.
"Aerie", "Firebugs", and "Labyrinthine" plays in the lush caves, all types of swamps, forests, and jungles, as well as the menu screen.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Mangrove roots and mangrove propagule

Can now be composted.
Mud

Now allows sugar cane, bamboo, and big dripleaves to be planted on top of it.
Muddy mangrove roots

Now allows flowers, saplings and grass to be planted on top of it.
Note block

Reverted the change made in beta 1.18.30.22 in which only wool would block sounds.
Sculk shrieker

Changed its model and its side texture.


=== Items ===
Boats and boats with chests

Changed item textures of all types of boats and boats with chests.
Echo shards

Can now generate inside Ancient City loot chests.


=== Mobs ===
Warden

Can now charge a ranged attack when the player is building high, hiding behind walls or being out of range of their melee attack.
Their rib cages will open up to shriek a sonically charged ranged attack that can penetrate walls.
The ranged attack deals 30HP × 15 damage in Normal and can hit at a horizontal distance of 15 blocks.
The ranged attack can only hit one target at a time.
Can now smell players from further away.
The vertical range wardens get angry at a target while sniffing is now 20 blocks instead of 6 blocks.
Now get angry at all mobs that bump into it, not just players.


=== World generation ===
Ancient city

Revamped with new structures, improvements to already existing structures and an updated loot table.
Now generate with valuable loot that includes the "otherside" music disc, potions of Regeneration II, enchanted books, enchanted iron and diamond leggings, enchanted diamond hoes, and enchanted golden apples.
If the frame of reinforced deepslate generates with a chest in front, it will always contain one golden apple (a hint about how to open the secret door below).
Has different levels and open spaces, with several types of ruins and wall structures.
Some of these structures contain dark oak logs, planks, and fences; cyan, light blue, and blue wool and carpets; ladders; ice and its variants; note blocks; stone pressure plates; and iron trapdoors opened with levers.
Hidden underneath the frame of reinforced deepslate are several rooms containing redstone mechanisms that serve to introduce new players to their function.
There is a silenced sculk sensor that needs a signal strength of 8 to open a redstone door. Taking the golden carrot from the chest placed near the structure and eating it will reveal the entrance.
Each variant of the city center has a different redstone puzzle concealing the entrance, requiring slightly different strategies to solve.
The mechanisms are made with redstone dust, redstone torches, redstone repeaters, redstone comparators, redstone lamps, blocks of redstone, sticky pistons, a sculk sensor, a target, and a lectern.
One variant includes a lever, and another includes a furnace containing 24 deepslate and a wooden shovel.


=== General ===
Music

The places where the following existing music can be played are changed:
"Stand Tall", "Wending", and "Infinite Amethyst" can no longer be played in the main menu.
"Left to Bloom" and "One More Day" can no longer be played in the main menu, can be played in all types of forests, jungles, and old growth taigas.
"Floating Dream" and "Comforting Memories" can be played in all types of forests, jungles, and old growth taigas.


== Fixes ==
Sounds

Added new music for The Wild Update.
Frogs now use all hurt sounds (MCPE-152629).
Froglights now have the correct breaking sound (MCPE-153943).
Ancient cities

Soul lanterns no longer generate on air blocks in ancient cities (MCPE-153586).
The city center structure now forms a complete rectangle of Reinforced Deepslate (MCPE-153567).
Added echo shards to the ancient city loot chests.
Updated ancient city structures to match Java Edition.
Warden

Warden now has a sonic boom attack that deals ranged damage and knockback to the target it strikes.
Warden no longer “sniffs” while it has a target.
Prevent the Warden from digging down if it sniffs a target.
Warden can now be pushed by other mobs.
Warden now gets angry at all mobs that bump into it (MCPE-153839).
Fixed a crash when swapping between game modes when attacking the warden.
Warden now gives correct amount of XP (MCPE-153564).
Allay

Allay interact tooltip now says "Give item to Allay" (MCPE-153035).
Blocks

Wither can't destroy reinforced deepslate anymore (MCPE-153542).
Ender dragon can't destroy reinforced deepslate anymore (MCPE-153545).
Reinforced Deepslate has been moved to the "Nature" tab in the Creative inventory (MCPE-153543).
Mud brick blocks

Mud brick stairs, slabs, and walls are now grouped properly (MCPE-153719).
Gameplay

Fixed game crash when using the material reducer (Education Edition feature).
Fixed light blocks being destroyable from within while underwater (MCPE-148393).
Fixed issue with experience gained when taking item from incorrect slot while using furnace (MCPE-152227).
Allow mangrove roots and propagules to be compostable (MCPE-153782, MCPE-153912).
Allow most plants and saplings to be placeable on mud and muddy mangrove roots. This includes all flowers, saplings, bamboo, sugar canes, big dripleaf, and sweet berry bushes (MCPE-153916).
Allow mangrove roots to generate through snow layers (MCPE-153913).
Tadpoles can now be tempted with slimeballs.
Touch Control Settings

Static Joystick toggle no longer gets disabled upon Move Joystick toggles getting disabled (MCPE-153201).
Graphical

Updated boat and chest boat item icon textures to make them consistent with Java Edition (MCPE-153353).
Raids

Illagers are now allowed to migrate to other villages and progress raids (MCPE-151310).
JSON

Fixed an issue that caused weights to not be used for music.


== References ==


== Navigation ==