Beta 1.13.0.4 is the third beta version released for Bedrock Edition 1.13.0, which fixes bugs and adds light blocks.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
Light blocks

Supports auxiliary data from 0 to 15 for light level.
Are available only through /give, /fill, and /setblock.
End rods with data values 6 and 7 updated to this version will display item data identical to the block item form of the light block; however, they retain their identifier (end_rod). If updated again to the current version of Bedrock Edition, they will convert to light blocks.
A secret second form of the light block is added. It has the numerical ID -215 and the namespaced ID item.light_block. It also uses the placeholder texture and was removed in beta 1.13.0.13.


== Fixes ==
Crashes

Fixed several crashes that could occur during gameplay.
Fixed a crash that happened when quick moving a structure void block. (MCPE-47903)
Fixed a crash that could occur when blocking projectiles with a shield. (MCPE-48070)
Fixed a crash that could sometimes occur when approaching world spawn. (MCPE-46686)
Fixed a crash that could occur on Xbox when changing internet connection.
Performance

Improved performance and stability when playing on split-screen on Xbox.
General

Fixed the minecart rider rotation not being updated correctly on some packs.
Fixed the third-person camera view shaking issue. (MCPE-48987)
Adjusted the player's sneak animation position. (MCPE-47883)
Players can now join a world correctly after accepting an invite.
Nether portals now connect properly after being cloned.
Fixed the animation of nausea (including using nether portals). (MCPE-47960)
Added the mirror back to the left arm in humanoid geometry. (MCPE-47944)
Split-screen players can now only join if they have an adequate controller available.
The correct Marketplace inventory items are now shown when switching users.
Fixed broken rotations in player animation for attacking.
Players now face the specified direction when added to teleport commands.
Fixed issue of damaged elytra texture never getting used. (MCPE-47758)
/clear now works correctly with damageable items.
Global resource packs in Settings now update to the new chosen language.
The throwing animation now plays when charging a trident with Riptide.
Corrected the player's sprint/swim state when exiting water.
Fixed an issue with making purchases on Oculus Rift.
Fixed a controller issue when docking the Nintendo Switch.
Left and right brackets on the world/friend/server tabs now function correctly with full keyboard controls toggled on.
The text to speech narrator now works correctly with punctuation in text boxes.
Fixed an issue with in-game patch notes not always showing up correctly.
Fixed an issue with some damageable items (such as armor, tools) not being suggested in the recipe book.
Removed the Create Realm button from beta versions of the game.
Gameplay

Fixed an issue that was sometimes causing mobs to despawn randomly. (MCPE-47922)
Players no longer fall through opening shulker boxes and pistons. (MCPE-47882)
Items that have been smelted can now be crafted and stacked correctly. (MCPE-47907, MCPE-48421, MCPE-47684)
Buttons are now craftable from the recipe book again. (MCPE-48584)
Mobs

Adult villagers can now get into beds with low ceilings.
Creepers no longer lose aggro when the line of sight is broken briefly.
Removed the fox moveToVillage behavior to match Java Edition.
Mobs can now enter minecarts and boats again. (MCPE-48596)
Dolphins now jump properly again.
Zombies no longer become stuck on doors.
The parrot dancing animation is now at the correct speed. (MCPE-48356)
Parrots can now fly correctly again. (MCPE-47954)
Armor stands and players can again wear helmets with secondary layers.
Items no longer appear as mobs when held by armor stands. (MCPE-48629)
Arrows now render correctly when held by armor stands.
Dolphins now follow players in boats again.
Graphical

Fixed cloud shading. (MCPE-47814)
Fixed an issue with water not rendering correctly on some servers. (MCPE-46813)
Fixed the flame height issue when player in on fire. (MCPE-48175)
Multiple blocks no longer change color to black when moved by pistons.
Using /fill and /clone commands with glass structures now render correctly.
User interface

Fixed the directional arrow controls when using the full keyboard gameplay setting. (MCPE-47853)
Removed the accessibility tab from the "Create World" screen.
Add-ons and scripting engine

Ducks can once again be hit by the player in the MINECON 2018 pack.
Fixed the positioning of particles that were only showing correctly when centered on screen.
Adding backward compatibility for old player animation flags.
Experimental UI is now registered as a trusted pack. (MCPE-47818)
Fixed the horse rein positioning and rotation in certain packs.
Fixed an issue with nested behavior pack definitions not running correctly.
Fixed an issue with minimum compatible versions of certain packs not working correctly.
The Timer component now works on vanilla projectiles.
minecraft:spell_effects no longer trigger a second timer.
Fixed an issue with the must_see_forget_duration component not working.
Fixed an entity collision issue that was affecting some marketplace maps.
Invisible end rods (variant 6) used in various Marketplace maps are now invisible again.


== References ==


== Navigation ==