Beta 1.16.0.51 is the sixth beta version for Bedrock Edition 1.16.0, released on March 16, 2020, which adds some features from the Nether Update, more parity and fixes bugs.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Ancient debris

Can be found throughout the Nether at any altitude, though it is much more common at lower levels.
Can be refined into a netherite scrap by smelting in a furnace or blast furnace.
Same blast resistance as obsidian, but is movable with pistons.
Inventory item floats on lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
A diamond pickaxe or better is required to mine it.
Always spawns covered by lava and/or blocks on all sides.
 Basalt

Make up basalt pillars.
Generates in soul sand valleys.
Can be placed directionally, similarly to logs.
 Block of netherite

Can be crafted with 9 netherite ingots.
Inventory item floats on lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
Same blast resistance as obsidian, but is movable with pistons, similary to anvils.
 Crimson and warped fungus

Generate in crimson and warped forests.
Can be placed on flower pots, dirt, coarse dirt, farmland, podzol, nylium, soul soil, and grass blocks.
Bone meal can be used on Nether fungi to grow it into the respective huge fungi when placed on the same type of nylium.
Unlike mushrooms, fungi cannot spread.
Fungi have a chance to generate by applying bone meal directly to a nylium block, making them renewable.
 Crimson and warped nylium

Resemble grass blocks.
Can be spread to netherrack by using bone meal on a netherrack block next to a nylium block.
If bone meal is used on a nylium block, it generates Crimson and warped fungus, Crimson and warped roots, and nether sprouts, depending the type of nylium.
 Crimson and warped planks

Does not burn.
Crafted from the respective stem.
Can be used to craft respective slabs, stairs, fences, fence gates, pressure plates, signs, buttons, doors and trapdoors.
 Crimson and warped roots

Foliage that generates in both crimson and warped forest biomes, as well as soul sand valleys.
Can be placed into flower pots.
Roots have a chance to generate by applying bone meal directly to their respective nylium block, making them renewable.
 Crimson and warped stems

Blocks that comprise the trunks of huge fungi.
Have animated textures.
Has a top texture similar to regular log blocks.
Can be placed directionally, similarly to logs.
Does not burn.
Have respective stripped variants.
 Nether sprouts

Foliage that generates in warped forests.
Have a chance to generate by applying bone meal directly to a warped nylium block, making them renewable.
 Warped Wart Block

A variation of the nether wart block, but cannot be crafted.
Generates as a part of huge warped fungi. Sometimes generates in the ground replacing the warped nylium in the warped forest biome.
Can be used in composters.
 Polished Basalt

Decorative block.
Crafted from 4 basalt blocks.
 Shroomlight

Emits a light level of 15, similarly to glowstone.
Can be mined with any tool, but axes and hoes are the most efficient.
Generate as a part of huge fungi.
 Soul fire

Blue variant of fire.
Fire lit on soul soil turns into soul fire regardless of dimension.
Burns forever, similar to regular fire on netherrack and magma blocks.
Generates naturally in the soul sand valley biome in the Nether.
Deals damage at a rate of 2HP per second as opposed to the 1HP per second of regular fire.
Does not extinguish when in the rain.
 Soul fire lantern

Gives off a light level of 10.
Crafted similarly to a normal lantern, using a soul fire torch instead of a normal torch.
Have an animated texture.
 Soul fire torch

Gives off a light level of 10.
Crafted similarly to a normal torch, with soul soil being placed under the stick.
 Soul soil

Generates in the soul sand valley, alongside conventional soul sand.
Fire lit on soul soil is soul fire.
The player does not sink and is not slowed when walking in soul soil.
 Target

Redstone component that can be activated by shooting projectiles into it.
Signal is stronger depending on how close the projectile is to the center of the block. The signal strength goes up to 15.
Can be crafted using a hay block and 4 redstone dust pieces.
Available only through Experimental gameplay.
 Weeping vines

Generates in the crimson forest.
Is placed on the bottom of a block and grows downward.


=== Items ===
 Netherite armor

Upgraded with a netherite ingot and the respective diamond item.
Does not burn in lava, as a dropped item.
Floats in lava.
Tougher than diamond armor.
Has higher durability and enchantability than diamond. But does not have as much enchantablity as gold.
Has a knockback resistance tag.
 Netherite axe, hoe, pickaxe, shovel, and sword.

Upgraded with a netherite ingot and the respective diamond item.
Does not burn in lava.
Floats in lava.
All work faster than diamond but not faster than gold.
 Netherite ingot

Created with 4 gold ingots and 4 netherite scraps.
Can be used to upgrade diamond tools and armor.
Floats in lava.
Cannot burn in lava.
 Netherite scrap

Created by smelting ancient debris in a furnace or blast furnace.
Used to create netherite ingots.
Floats in lava.
Cannot burn in lava.
Spawn eggs

Added  hoglin and  piglin spawn eggs.


=== Mobs ===
 Hoglins

Spawn in crimson forests.
Attack players on sight.
Drop raw porkchop. Do not drop leather yet.
Have an adult and baby variant.
Can be bred with crimson fungi.
Are hunted by adult piglins.
Baby hoglins are left alone by adult and baby piglins.
Avoid placed warped fungi.
 Piglins

Spawn in crimson forests and nether wastes biomes.
Randomly spawn with golden sword or crossbow.
Adults are hostile; babies are neutral.
Piglins do not attack players wearing at least one piece of golden armor.
Adult piglins turn aggressive when a player is mining blocks of gold or opening chests, even if they are wearing gold armor.
The player can barter with them by right-clicking with golden ingots or drop them on the ground, which makes them drop at least one item or block.
Currently give only obsidian and flint and steel. This is a placeholder.
Attack adult hoglins.
Baby piglins do not attack and adult piglins do not attack baby hoglins.
Adults attack wither skeletons and withers.
Are creeped out by soul fire, soul fire torches, soul fire lanterns, and zombie pigmen.
Can spawn with golden armor.
Convert to a zombified piglin when in the Overworld and the End.
Currently have none of the sounds from Java Edition and use the player hurt sound. This is a temporary placeholder.


=== World generation ===
Biomes

 Crimson forest
A dense forest with huge crimson fungi. Nether wart blocks and Nether fungi are found in patches on the ground and weeping vines are found under the trees and nether wart stalactites.
Zombified Piglins, piglins and hoglins may spawn here.
 Soul sand valley
A vast grotto composed of uncovered soul sand, soul soil, large pillars made of basalt, blue fog, and soul fire.
Skeletons, ghasts, and endermen may spawn here.
 Warped forest
A color variation of the crimson forest, but with somewhat different vegetation and blue particles and fog effects.
Only endermen may spawn here.
Structures

 Basalt pillar
Floor to ceiling pillars of basalt that generate in soul sand valley.
 Huge crimson fungi and  huge warped fungi
New structure resembling trees found in crimson and warped forests, respectively.
Made of crimson and warped stem blocks as well as red nether wart blocks and warped wart blocks.
Can be grown from their respective Nether fungi.


=== Gameplay ===
Enchanting

Implemented Curse of Vanishing
Any item with this enchantment disappears when the player dies with the item in the inventory.
The keepinventory gamerule prevents this.
Cannot be removed with a grindstone.
Fully implemented Curse of Binding
Any item with this enchantment can not be removed by the player in survival mode, and can come off when the player dies.
Cannot be removed with a grindstone.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Corals and Coral Fans

Now drop themselves when mined with Silk Touch.
Magma Blocks

Now melt top snow sitting on it.
Mushrooms

Variants of brown and red now have been renamed to "Brown Mushroom" and "Red Mushroom" respectively.
Mushroom Blocks

Variants of brown, red and stem now have been renamed to "Brown Mushroom Block," "Red Mushroom Block," "Mushroom Stem" respectively.
Variant of pores is still named "Mushroom."
Shulker boxes

Can now be undyed in a cauldron.
Walls

Walls do not have gaps anymore when stacked vertically.


=== Mobs ===
Mobs

Mobs killed by lingering potions now drop XP and uncommon loot when the potion came from a player.
Mobs now pickup items and equip armor.
Enderman

Can no longer pick up netherrack, but can now pick up some of the newly added blocks.
Squid

Now spawn more frequently. Ocean cap is now 4 and river cap is now 2.
Withers

Can now be summoned using soul soil in the base.


=== Gameplay ===
Knockback

Knockback resistance is now a scale instead of a probability.
Fire Resistance

Now slightly increases the player's visibility while in lava.


=== General ===
Add-ons and map making

Nether biome generation are now data driven.


=== Generation ===
Far Lands

Skygrid in Overworld no longer generates.


== Fixes ==
Crashes

Game no longer crashes when the /kill command is used while the dragon is respawning.
General

Corrected fishing rod's bobber movement.
Large quantities of snow no longer suddenly generates in chunks.
Gameplay

Minecart hoppers now drop a hopper item when being destroyed by a ranged attack. (MCPE-55859)
Placing a block against an interactive block while crouched no longer opens the UI.
Interacting with a minecart hopper now opens the hopper screen and no longer blocks other screens from opening.
Fixed Armor Stand and its contents dropping as items when broken when 'Tile Drops' rule is false.
Flying Players are able to return to the overworld if an end portal is on their spawn point.
Enchanted bows are no longer consumed when auto-crafting dispensers.
Players can no longer breathe underwater when swimming under blocks with a Turtle Shell equipped. (MCPE-35769)
TNT no longer drops as an item when exploded. (MCPE-38101)
/locate now correctly displays the nearest structure. (MCPE-45526)
Players no longer teleport through partial blocks when relogging. (MCPE-46858)
Tools now make noise when they break. (MCPE-32355)
State of Creative flying now remains after accessing world setting.
Players no longer "swim" through the air after swimming in a bubble column. (MCPE-48958)
Boats can now move and don't get stuck when on top of all partial block. (MCPE-34580)
Boats no longer continue sliding on bottom half slab.
Fire charges are now consumed when used to light campfires. (MCPE-46217)
Player is no longer displaced into solid blocks on respawn by non-solid blocks resulting in x-ray vision. (MCPE-53460)
Kelp no longer stops growing at too low of a height. (MCPE-57330)
Enchantment tables no longer display options with no attached enchant.
Graphical

Fire on half-slabs is now visible. (MCPE-44395)
Mobs

Mobs now pickup items and equip armor. (MCPE-14211)
Tamed horses can no longer be tempted by food that cannot be used to breed them.
Some mobs had a large delay for finding their nearest attackable target (Wolves attacking sheep).
Squid now spawn more frequently. Ocean cap is now 4 and river cap is now 2. (MCPE-39758)
Iron golems now ensure they can reach a target before choosing to attack it. (MCPE-42402)
Jumping animation is no longer broken for horses.
Polar Bear no longer chases player on its two back legs.
Sheep no longer eat grass through partial blocks.
Fixed issue where Enderman would not attack the player when looked at.
Mobs no longer start shaking when entering minecarts.
Fish no longer spawn in flowing water.
Despawn rules have been changed to closely match Java despawn rules (MCPE-21856)
This change allows mobs to more consistently spawn around the player and improve the frequency of mobs spawning underground while the player is exploring caves, as well as trying to farm areas that spawn specific mobs (eg. wither skeletons, in nether fortresses).
Any mobs that have been set to persist (tempted, name-tagged, tamed, bred, etc) never naturally despawn.
Almost all naturally spawning mobs automatically despawn when they are 54 blocks or further away from the nearest players.
Fish automatically despawn at a max range of 40 blocks or further.
If mobs are between 32 and 54 blocks from the nearest player, they must not take damage for 30 seconds as well as successfully roll a 1 in 800 chance to despawn.
Blocks

Trapdoor collision now matches their visual shape. (MCPE-13451)
Paintings can no longer be placed on top of item frames.
Cactus blocks now break when next to lava.
Flowers in snow now break properly and drop the correct item. (MCPE-30147)
Falling blocks no longer break when falling on ice blocks and glass.
Falling blocks are now broken by partial blocks that are placed above piston arms facing up.
Mycelium no longer wrongly turns to dirt due to not having enough light.
Controls

Quality of life changes to the inventory screen when using a controller. Controls are now more user friendly and closer resemble the controls when using mouse and keyboard. (MCPE-34912)
You can now strafe downward in water while swimming by holding the sneak button.
Control profile now properly switches to water controls when getting out of a bed underwater. (MCPE-49632)
Sounds

Flying with elytra at high speeds no longer causes the sound to become jittery. (MCPE-19945)
User interface

The player can no longer type beyond what can be seen in the Book and Quill.
Adjusted hover text position in inventory to respect input mode (controller mode should show hover text at the edge of the currently selected element).
Carve tooltip is now displayed when pointing shears at pumpkin.
Tooltip for leaving boat is now consistent across platforms.
Added Grow tooltip when pointing bone meal at compatible blocks.
Can no longer accidentally open keyboard when using book and quill with touch controls.


== References ==


== Navigation ==