The Better Together Update is the name of the update for Bedrock Edition 1.2.0, a major update released on September 20, 2017, that unified the cross-compatible Pocket Edition, Windows 10 Edition, Gear VR Edition, and Fire TV Edition under the simple name Minecraft. It also marked the debut of Bedrock Edition on Xbox One, replacing the previous Xbox One Edition.


== Better Together ==
This update extended crossplay (short for cross-platform gameplay, the ability of players on different platforms to play interactively in the same world) to virtually all of the newest-generation gaming platforms. Previously, the Pocket Edition had supported cross-play between mobile, Windows 10, and VR platforms. This update added support for the Xbox One and Nintendo Switch, drastically increasing the number of devices that could participate.
The updated game was also designed to work with the Nintendo Switch and Sony PlayStation 4; however, both platforms did not initially receive the update. The Nintendo Switch deployment was delayed due to problems with cross-device connectivity and upgrading of old worlds and Mojang Studios was still in ongoing talks with Sony about a possible future agreement as the latter had previously declined to participate.

June 21, 2018, Bedrock Edition 1.4.1 was released on the Nintendo Switch.
On December 10, 2019, Bedrock Edition 1.14.0 was released on the PlayStation 4. Mojang Studios also stated that it would consider porting Bedrock Edition to macOS, Linux, or any other platform with sufficiently strong demand, further expanding the crossplay concept.
With the unification of so many different platforms under one version of the game, the nickname Pocket Edition became increasingly outdated. From 1.2.0 onwards, Mojang referred to this version as the Bedrock Engine or Bedrock Edition when distinguishing it from either the game as a whole or other versions of Minecraft.  The name "Bedrock" came from the internal name for its source code database. To emphasize the broad range of supported devices, Minecraft: Bedrock Edition became known simply as Minecraft. The original Java version of Minecraft, which had formerly held that designation, was officially renamed Minecraft: Java Edition to avoid confusion.


== Technical details ==
Even though the name changed, the update was a normal update for Pocket Edition, Windows 10 Edition, Gear VR Edition, and Fire TV Edition. On Xbox One, the update was released as a new game, requiring the user to install it separately. Bedrock Edition on Xbox One is free for players who own a digital copy of Xbox One Edition, have played the disc copy of Xbox One Edition for at least 5 hours in the past 12 months, or have bought at least one DLC for Xbox One Edition.
Beta testing for the update for Android and Windows 10 began on July 31, 2017, and for Xbox One on August 24, 2017. The update was submitted to certification for 9 of the 10 platforms on September 15, 2017.
With the release of the Better Together Update, the original PC version of Minecraft was renamed to Minecraft: Java Edition in 1.12.2 to distinguish it from Bedrock Edition.


== Notable features ==

New blocks
 Banner
Crafted using six pieces of wool and a stick.
Can be customized with patterns and dyes.
Supports up to six layers of customization.
Can be placed on the wall or on the ground.
 Coarse Dirt
Replaces grassless dirt.
Can also be crafted using two dirt and two gravel in a checkerboard pattern.
Will not allow grass and mycelium to spread on to it.
 Jukebox
Crafted using a diamond surrounded by eight wooden planks.
Used to play music discs.
 Stained Glass
Crafted using eight glass surrounding a matching dye.
 Stained Glass Panes
New items
 Book and Quill and  Written Book
Book and quill can be crafted using a book, ink sac, and a feather.
Can be used to write up to 256 characters on 50 pages.
When signed, the player can set their title and convert it to a written book, after which the contents cannot be edited.
 Firework Star
Crafted using gunpowder and any other ingredients, including dyes, a mob head, a gold nugget, a feather, a fire charge, a diamond, or a glowstone dust.
The mob head, gold nugget, feather, and fire charge are mutually exclusive when crafting.
Can be crafted into a firework rocket to shape the effect of the firework.
A firework rocket crafted with a firework star when used for elytra flying causes damage to the player.
 Firework Rocket
Crafted using a paper and gunpowder.
The amount of gunpowder (up to three) can affect the flight time of the firework rocket.
A firework star can also be added to give the firework an effect.
When used or shot from a dispenser, the firework rocket shoots up to the sky.
If a firework star was used in the crafting recipe, a firework explosion with the desired effect is shown.
Can also be used to propel elytra flying.
New music disc items, which can be used on a jukebox to play a song.
All but "11" can be obtained by creepers killed by skeletons.
 C418 - 13
Can also be found in dungeon and woodland mansion chests.
 C418 - cat
Can also be found in dungeon and woodland mansion chests.
 C418 - blocks
 C418 - chirp
 C418 - far
 C418 - mall
 C418 - mellohi
 C418 - stal
 C418 - strad
 C418 - ward
 C418 - 11
 C418 - wait
Spawn eggs:
 Parrot Spawn Egg
 Zombie Villager Spawn Egg
New mobs
 Parrot
Spawns in jungles.
Flies around but sits when tired.
Can be tamed using seeds.
Can imitate sounds of nearby hostile mobs.
Will dance when music is being played in a jukebox.
Comes in five different colors: Red, Blue, Green, Cyan, and Gray.
Drops feathers when killed.
Using a cookie on the parrot will instantly kill them.
New non-mob entities
 Armor Stand
Crafted using a stone slab and six sticks.
Used to display armor, including pumpkins and mob heads.
New generated structures
Ravines
Huge and tall cracks in the Overworld that exposes the underground from above.
New gameplay
New world preferences:
Bonus Chest
A chest generates with various materials and foods to get started, alongside four torches on its sides.
Starting Map
Players will spawn in with a map in their inventory that scaled 1:8.
Trust Players
Sets what other players that join the world can or cannot do.
Recipe book
Shows a list of recipes that can be done through a crafting table.
Can be activated by clicking on the green-colored book.
When a recipe is tapped on, the materials required is placed on the crafting table.
Splitscreen
Allows up to four players on one screen at the same time.
Only available on Xbox One.
Featured servers
Accessible via Servers section in Play menu.
Shows a selection of partnered servers.
How to Play
A built-in guide accessible through settings designed to help players in Minecraft.
Other additions
Custom characters.
Ability to change player skin while playing a world
Choice of outline instead of highlight for block selection
In-game shortcuts for certain commands.
The command /tickingarea
Notable changes
Brewing stands now require blaze powder to brew potions.
The crafting system has changed, now based on the recipe book.


== Further revisions ==
1.2.1, 1.2.2 and 1.2.3 fixed numerous bugs.
1.2.5 added the ability to broadcast to Mixer and other streaming services.
1.2.6 saw Realms being integrated with Xbox Live Clubs, and updated textures for horses, mules, and donkeys.
1.2.6.1 was released exclusively on Android to fix numerous bugs.
1.2.7 fixed even more bugs.
1.2.8 fixed a lone bug with the user interface on partnered servers.
1.2.9, 1.2.10 and 1.2.11 fixed even more bugs.
1.2.13 added menu screen transitions, more control options; added many Update Aquatic features as Experimental Gameplay, and fixed even more bugs.
1.2.14 was released exclusively on iOS to disable test commands.
1.2.15 was released exclusively on iOS to fix even more bugs.
1.2.16 (released as 1.2.13.60 on devices other than iOS) fixed even more bugs.


== Trailer ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==