In Java Edition Beta 1.8, Xbox 360 Edition TU5, and Pocket Edition v0.9.0 alpha, biomes received a major overhaul, removing and changing many biomes. The old biomes were much smaller, sometimes smaller than a chunk, and less distinct.
Biome generation was controlled in these versions by noise generated temperature and rainfall values, allowing for fully smooth transitions from biome to biome and preventing cold and warm biomes from generating next to one another. The specific biome was determined by where the combination of temperature and rainfall put it. (By modifying the game, it was also possible to create single biome worlds in these versions).
Height variation was entirely independent of biome type, with biomes having no influence on the shape of terrain. This meant things like cliffs and mountains were able to generate up to nearly 128 on the y-axis in any biome. Tall grass was also much less present in pre-1.8 worlds (except in the "Plains" and "Rainforest" biomes).
There were 13 biome types: 10 in the Overworld, 1 in the Nether, and 2 unused ones that are in the code but aren't encountered in normal play. These biomes were added in Java Edition Alpha 1.2.0, and underwent relatively few changes before their removal in Beta 1.8: birch and spruce trees were added in Beta 1.2 (which allowed for new chunks to have birch trees generate in forests and spruce to generate in taiga in place of oak trees), desert biome borders were rotated in Beta 1.3 due to a bug previously causing them to not line up, and tall grass and ferns were introduced in Beta 1.6. 
Grass and foliage colors were determined by an algorithm based on the temperature and humidity, rather than from the biomes directly. This means there can be a wide range of different grass and foliage colors for any one biome. Once the game gets the temperature and humidity values by pulling grass and foliage colors, it uses said values to grab colors from /misc/grasscolor.png or /misc/foliagecolor.png, and applies it to the uncolored grass or leaves. The same implementation also existed for water coloration with /misc/watercolor.png. However, this feature wasn't enabled in the code; Java Edition 1.13 would later implement biome-based water coloring, but it does not use the watercolor.png file (which had since been removed).
This same terrain generator and set of biomes was ported almost directly to Xbox 360 Edition, with the only difference being that the terrain transitions to ocean near the edges of the world. Most Java Edition Beta seeds also work in Xbox 360 Edition prior to TU5, which rewrote world generation to match Beta 1.8. No other versions of Legacy Console Edition ever featured this terrain generator, as TU5 predates any ports to other consoles. Pocket Edition versions prior to v0.9.0 alpha also use effectively the same method to generate terrain, but the similarity is less noticeable for several reasons: all biomes other than deserts, taigas, and tundras look nearly identical due to the lack of dynamic grass coloration in these versions; tall grass and ferns didn't generate at all; the very small world size means that a single world will usually only contain a few biomes at most; and the underlying random number generator is different, so seeds do not match up with other editions.


== List of biome types ==


== Terrain features ==


== Gallery ==