Birch Island is an island covered in birch, appearing in Minecraft Mini-Series.


== Overview ==
Birch Island is one of the four Spooky Isles, the setting of the first season of CommuniKate's reality television series. Although not fully colonized, the island has evidently been rigged to accommodate for the show, with a command block being installed in an area where the contestants would be teleported into. On the ground is a single stone button, which can raise and lower the block on activation.
Once the contestants are forced to survive during the night, the island shows many hallmarks of typical Minecraft biomes. Monsters begin to spawn as the sun sets, beginning with a creeper, while Sacha began to hunt for wild animals such as chickens. In spite of the name, oak and dark oak appear to have been plentiful on the island. Furthermore, one tree drops birch wood instead of logs. This could imply that the island (if not the entirety of the Spooky Isles) are artificial.
As the contestants fought to survive, many of them would create temporary bases. Toby would craft a ladder into a cave carved out of a cliff, while Mo and Slugger hid inside an otherwise unseen red mushroom. 


=== Beach ===
During the first challenge, the ultimate goal was to locate a structure on a map, revealed at the end to be a structure made of cut sandstone on the beach. The only way to enter the building was to activate a lever in the possession of the CommuniKate, which when pulled revealed the interior, full of valuable objects such as blocks of emerald, diamond tools, gold ingots, and light blue glazed terracotta. However, the building would ultimately be revealed to be purely for show, being rigged with TNT and destroyed after being discovered.
Following the destruction of the sanctuary, the beach would become a campsite, where the contestants would construct their own living quarters. Initially, the camp would consist of just a collection of beds and banners near the crater of the sanctuary, with a crafting table nearby and stray sandstone blocks Durango and Slugger cleared out. Over the coming hours, the teams would construct a shelter out of sandstone and birch planks, decorated with flowers found by River, while Quinn decided to stick to herself and build a shed to the left. After the completion of the second Birch Island challenge, River and Durango would be rewarded a painting of a fish, which was placed above the Team Mooshroom beds. Much like the sanctuary, however, the campsite would ultimately be destroyed once the game continued on to Eerie Island.


=== Abandoned Mineshaft ===
Somewhere between the entryway and beach of the island is an abandoned mineshaft, with ruins of unknown wooden objects strewn about its entrance. During the first night, Rudi managed to survive the night by ducking inside the shaft and boarding it up with dark oak logs.
On the day of the second challenge, the contestants would be tasked with exploring the mineshaft properly, being given iron pickaxes with the goal of collecting gold. Inside, several gold ingots and blocks are scattered throughout, placed in varying locations. Elsewhere in the mine are gold ores and chests. In spite of being seemingly lighted up in advance, monsters such as creepers and cave spiders continued to emerge into the territory. One particular section is shown to be infested with many cave spiders and plentiful cobwebs, presumably the site of either a nest or a spawner.
Buried deep within the mine is what Durango would dub the "motherload," being around 25 gold ingots placed above lava. Several of the contestants would come up with their own ideas for how to approach the task of collecting the motherload, with Sacha choosing to place a bridge of cobblestone, while River took a long route down several stone platforms. Durango would try and build a cobblestone ramp, and end up stranded in the middle of the heat, while Eve tried lifting herself and Vin with vexes, leading to their disqualification. The ultimate winners would be Team Tundra.


== Inhabitants ==


== Visitors ==


== Trivia ==
During the episodes on the island, a scoreboard appears wherever CommuniKate gives updates. It is unclear if this is manually installed at each location or somehow portable.


== Gallery ==


== Navigation ==