Block properties control how different block types interact with various gameplay mechanics. While some block behaviors are specific to individual block types, such as the ability to open a chest or activate a lever, block properties specify how blocks behave in response to interactions that can occur with any block. For example, fire may attempt to spread to any nearby block, in which case the flammable block property is used to determine if the spread succeeds. Similarly, a piston may attempt to push any block, and the push reaction block property is used to determine if the push succeeds, fails, or destroys the block.
For the most part, block properties are really properties of block types, not properties of individual blocks. For example, if a given block is flammable, all blocks of the same type will be as well. However, the values of some block properties can vary depending on the given block state—for example, fence gates are collidable when closed, but not when open.


== List of properties ==


=== Solid ===

The legacy solid block property, usually just called solid, determines if a block is considered "solid" for a number of game mechanics. It is distinct from many other notions of solidity, such as whether the block is opaque, conductive, collidable, is a full block, or allows mob spawning. A slight variant of the legacy solid property is known as blocks motion for historical reasons, though it is also unrelated to whether or not a block is collidable.
Many gameplay mechanics are affected by the legacy solid property, including support for certain attached blocks like candles, conversion of farmland to dirt, destruction of cactus, summoning of iron golems, and pathfinding. Additionally, the blocks motion property influences random teleportation and certain fluid mechanics.


=== Collidable ===

The collidable block property determines whether or not a given block has a collision box that players, mobs, or other entities cannot move through. It is distinct from whether or not the block is considered solid or movement-blocking for certain other gameplay mechanics. Most blocks are collidable, but the following blocks are not:


=== Conductive ===

The conductive block property determines whether a given block can conduct redstone signals when powered by redstone components. For historical reasons, conductive blocks are often called solid or opaque and non-conductive blocks are often called transparent, but conductivity is separate from whether a block is considered solid, collidable, or opaque.
As a rule of thumb, opaque full blocks (like stone) tend to be conductive while partial blocks (like slabs) or transparent blocks (like glass) tend to be non-conductive. However, there are numerous exceptions. For example, glowstone and observers are not conductive despite being opaque full blocks, while mud and soul sand are conductive despite not being full blocks.


=== Valid spawn ===

The valid spawn block property determines whether ordinary mobs can spawn on top of a given block (assuming their other spawn conditions are met).
As a rule of thumb, blocks with a full, solid top face tend to allow mob spawning while other blocks tend not to. For example most full blocks allow mob spawning, as do upside-down stairs and azaleas, as their top face is solid and spans the entire block. However, there are numerous exceptions. For example, mobs cannot spawn on glass or bedrock even though they are full blocks, and mobs can spawn on soul sand even though it is not. A full list is given below.


=== Flammability ===

Three related block properties determine how fire spreads to and interacts with other blocks:

The ignite odds property controls how quickly a block catches fire if nearby fire is available to spread there.
The burn odds property controls how quickly a block that is currently on fire burns away.
The ignited by lava property determines whether or not nearby lava can cause the block to catch fire.
The word flammable is often used to describe blocks capable of burning away—that is, blocks that have burn odds greater than zero—but it is also sometimes used to describe blocks capable of catching fire at all.
Some blocks can be ignited by fire but not by lava and vice versa. For example, hay bales can be ignited by fire but not by lava, while mushroom blocks are ignited by lava but cannot be ignited by nearby fire. Blocks in the latter category never burn away, and they usually extinguish themselves quickly. The only exceptions are blocks that burn forever, such as netherrack and soul sand.


=== Replaceable ===

If a block has the replaceable block property, blocks placed on, against, or in the same location as the replaceable block replace it rather than being placed on or against it. For example, placing a block on a block containing short grass replaces the grass with the block. Most blocks are not replaceable, but the following blocks are:

The replaceable block property is also used by a few other game mechanics:

Falling blocks that fall onto replaceable blocks replace them.
Huge fungi may replace replaceable blocks when generated or grown.
Nether portals may replace replaceable blocks when generated.
Cobwebs spawned by the weaving effect may replace replaceable blocks.


=== Suffocates ===

The suffocates block property determines whether an entity suffocates if its head is inside a block.
Usually, blocks are suffocating if and only if they are full blocks that also block motion. For example, stone suffocates mobs, but slabs do not (because they are not full blocks), and neither do chorus flowers (because they are not considered motion-blocking). However, there are some exceptions:

Copper grates, glass, stained glass, tinted glass, leaves, and mangrove roots do not suffocate mobs despite being motion-blocking full blocks.
Dirt path, farmland, mud, and soul sand suffocate mobs despite not being full blocks.


=== Blocks vision ===
The blocks vision block property determines whether the player can see while their head is inside a block. If a block is vision-blocking, the player's screen is obscured by a darkened version of the block's texture if their head is inside the block.
Almost all blocks that are suffocating are also vision-blocking and vice versa. However, there are a few exceptions:

Snow blocks vision if it is 8 layers tall, but it never suffocates.
Trial spawners and vaults do not block vision but do suffocate.


=== Push reaction ===

The push reaction block property determines what happens when a piston attempts to push or pull a block. It has four possible values:

normal: The block can be pushed and pulled by pistons.
push_only: The block can be pushed by pistons but cannot be pulled.
destroy: The block breaks when pushed and cannot be pulled.
block: The block cannot be pushed or pulled. If a piston must push the block to extend, the attempt to extend fails.
If a block's push reaction is anything other than normal, the block also does not stick to slime blocks or honey blocks.


== Relationship between solid, opaque, and similar properties ==

There is no single property that determines if a block is a "solid block" for all gameplay mechanics. As such, the words solid, opaque, and transparent are colloquially applied to several different block properties, which can cause confusion. Much of this confusion stems from the fact that earlier versions of Minecraft used a single property to determine which blocks were opaque, conductive, caused suffocation, or allowed mob spawning, so the words solid and opaque were (and often still are) used synonymously to refer to all three.
Further confusing matters, although contemporary versions of Minecraft use distinct block properties to control distinct behaviors, the behavior of many blocks added in earlier versions has been intentionally preserved. This can result in surprising inconsistencies and exceptions with no intuitive explanation. For example, mobs cannot spawn on or suffocate inside glass blocks even though they are full blocks. This can create the mistaken impression that mobs cannot spawn on any block that is not fully opaque, but in fact mobs may spawn on top slabs, upside-down stairs, azaleas, slime blocks, and many other transparent blocks.
Furthermore, even if explicit terms like opaque, conductive, and valid spawn are used instead of the catch-all term solid, some game mechanics do depend on whether a block is considered "solid" in a more conventional sense, and several different mechanisms are used to make that determination even within that category:

Some mechanics, such as enderman teleportation, determine whether a block is solid using the legacy solid block property.
Other mechanics, such as iron golem summoning, determine whether a block is solid by checking if it a full block, which is a property of its collision box.
Still other mechanics, such as determining whether a block can have a torch or button attached to one of its faces, uses a separate system that checks geometric properties of the supporting block's "support box", which is usually the same as its collision box, but is different for certain blocks.
As the word "solid" is sometimes used to refer to all of these things, the set of "solid blocks" can be difficult to precisely define without additional context to determine which notion of solidity is being discussed.


== History ==


== See also ==
Block states


== References ==


== Navigation ==