The Boss Update is the name of the update for Pocket Edition, Windows 10 Edition, Gear VR Edition, and New Nintendo 3DS Edition that focused on adding bosses to the game, aside from the ender dragon.
On Pocket Edition, Windows 10 Edition, and Gear VR Edition, it released as alpha version v0.16.0 on October 21, 2016 for all platforms aside from iOS, which released a few days later on October 25, 2016.  On New Nintendo 3DS Edition, it released as version 1.3.12 on January 30/31, 2018.
The official name for the update, the Boss Update, was revealed on August 29, 2016 in a blog post on the Mojang website.


== Notable features ==

New blocks
 Beacon
Crafted using a Nether star surrounded by five glass and three obsidian.
Requires a pyramid structure composed of either iron, gold, diamond, or emerald.
The more tier to the pyramid, the more status effects become available.
When placed on top of the pyramid structure, it shoots out a beam of light.
Entering its GUI shows a list of status effect depending on how many pyramid tiers are available, and will activate those effects upon inserting either an iron ingot, gold ingot, diamond, or emerald.
 Wet Sponge
Obtained after using a sponge in an area of water.
Can be smelted to become a regular sponge again.
New prismarine blocks, which can all be found in ocean monuments:
 Prismarine
Can be crafted using four prismarine shards.
 Prismarine Bricks
Can be crafted using nine prismarine shards.
 Dark Prismarine
Can be crafted using an ink sac surrounded by eight prismarine shards.
 Sea Lantern
Can be crafted using four prismarine shards and five prismarine crystals in a + formation.
New items
 Nether Star
Obtained as a drop from withers.
Used to craft a beacon.
 Prismarine Crystals
Obtained as drops from guardians and elder guardians.
Used to craft sea lanterns.
 Prismarine Shard
Obtained as drops from guardians and elder guardians.
Used to craft prismarine blocks.
New potion:
 Potion of Decay
Only available through commands or through the Creative mode inventory.
New tipped arrow:
 Arrow of Decay
Spawn eggs:
 Elder Guardian Spawn Egg
 Guardian Spawn Egg
New mobs
 Guardian
Spawns in ocean monuments.
Attacks players and squid with a beam that charges gradually.
Players that try to attack it while its spikes are deployed causes them to receive Thorns-like damage.
Drops prismarine shards, prismarine crystals, and raw fish when killed.
 Elder Guardian
Three spawn in ocean monuments.
When in close proximity to a ocean monument, an elder guardian inflicts the player Mining Fatigue III for 5 minutes.
Has similar attacks and mechanics to regular guardians, but with greater health and more powerful attacks.
Drops wet sponge, raw fish, and prismarine crystals when killed.
 Wither
A new boss mob summoned by placing four soul sand in a short T-shape, and three wither skeleton skulls on top of it.
Upon summoning, the wither slowly charges up and is invincible. After a few seconds, the area around the wither explodes and it starts attacking players and non-undead mobs.
Its heads can fire wither skulls that explode upon impact.
When hit, players and mobs are inflicted with the Wither status effect.
It can also break most nearby blocks.
Any kills made by the wither regenerates its health.
At half-health, the wither will put up a shield to reflect any projectiles, meaning close combat is required to finish it off.
Additionally, it will create an explosion and summon 3 to 4 wither skeletons on higher difficulties.
Drops a Nether star when killed.
New structures
 Ocean monument
Found in ocean biomes.
Will spawn with guardians and three elder guardians.
Prismarine blocks, sponges, and eight gold blocks can be found here.
Other additions
Various new option settings.
Add-ons, which are user-created resource packs and behavior packs that can reshape the functionality of the game.
Notable changes
Added sounds for various items, blocks, and mobs.


== Further revisions ==
Alpha v0.16.1 fixed some bugs and crashes from Alpha v0.16.0.
Alpha v0.16.2 fixed some bugs from Alpha v0.16.1, and also added the Cartoon texture pack.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==