Bottle may refer to:


== Minecraft ==
Glass Bottle, an empty bottle crafted with glass.
Bottle o' Enchanting, a bottle full of experience.
Honey Bottle, a bottle containing honey, used to restore 6 () hunger and remove the  poison effect.
Ominous Bottle, a bottle that gives the user Bad Omen.
Water Bottle, a bottle filled with water.
Potion, a brewed potion giving the user an effect.
Splash Potion, a throwable potion.
Lingering Potion, a throwable potion that creates an effect cloud.
Dragon's Breath, a bottle used for brewing Lingering Potions.
Medicine[Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education  only], a specialized cute for a specific effect.


=== April Fools ===
Bottle of Entity, a potion that disguised the user as an entity.
Bottle of Void, an potion that removes an entity's disguise.
Potion of Big, a potion that enlarges the user.
Potion of Small, a potion that shrinks the user.
Potion of Sticky, a potion that allows the user to scale walls.
Potato Oil, a potion that makes all blocks slippery for the user.
Poisonous Potato Oil, a poisonous version of Potato Oil.


== Minecraft: Story Mode ==
Ivor's Potion, the potion intended to be used as a fail-safe for the wither storm
Potion, regular potions that are seen throughout both seasons of the series
Smoke Bomb, a lingering potion that produces large amount of smoke
Splash Potion, a weapon used by witches and Ivor


== Minecraft Dungeons ==
Burning Brew, a potion that grants the hero the burning effect
Dense Brew, a potion that grants the hero a resistance to pushbacks and melee damage
Oakwood Brew, a potion that briefly boosts the hero's defense
Potion of Water Breathing, a potion that grants the ability to breathe freely underwater for a limited time
Shadow Brew, a potion that grants invisibility and boosts the hero's next melee attack
Strength Potion, a potion that briefly boosts damage
Sweet Brew, a potion that grants a small defense boost and resistance to freezing effects
Swiftness Potion, a potion that briefly boosts the hero's movement speed
Health Potion, a potion that is part of the hero's utility bar
Health Potion (consumable), an unused consumable version of the health potion utility
Harming Potion, an unused potion
Invisibility Potion, an unused potion
Splash Harming Potion, an unused potion
Splash Slowing Potion, an unused potion