The Bountiful Update is the name for Java Edition 1.8, a major update that was released on September 2, 2014. The update has two main themes, one being features added for mapmakers and the other being new survival features. 
Development began the month after 1.7.4 was released. Fifty-two development snapshots were released, from 14w02a to 14w34d – the second most for any major update to date. During a long development period – 236 days long – six subsequent versions of 1.7 were released.  The time between releases of 1.7.2 and 1.8 is the second longest time span between major updates, at 312 days. That is over a month longer than the development of Infdev and Alpha combined, and slightly over 2 weeks shorter than the development of Beta. Several iterations of the Minecraft Launcher were also released during this period, from 1.3.9 to 1.5.3.
The official name for the update, the Bountiful Update, was announced on August 22, 2014 in a blog post on the Mojang website.
Mojang released the first pre-release on August 22, 2014, the second pre-release on August 25 and the third pre-release on August 28.


== Notable features ==

New blocks
 Banner
Crafted using six pieces of wool and a stick.
Can be customized with patterns and dyes.
Supports up to six layers of customization.
Can be placed on the wall or on the ground.
 Barrier
Only available through commands.
Is unbreakable like bedrock, but is completely transparent.
Is only visible when holding the item in Creative mode.
 Coarse Dirt
Replaces grassless dirt.
Can also be crafted using two dirt and two gravel in a checkerboard pattern.
Does not allow grass and mycelium to spread on to it.
 Iron Trapdoor
Crafted using four iron ingots.
Opens only when activated with redstone.
 Slime Block
Crafted using nine slimeballs.
Can also be crafted back into nine slimeballs.
Entities landing on the top spot of a slime block bounce, negating fall damage.
Adjacent blocks near a slime block move with it when the slime block is moved with a piston.
 Wet Sponge
Obtained after using a sponge in an area of water.
Can be smelted to become sponge again.
 Fences of spruce, birch, jungle, acacia, and dark oak wood.
 Fence Gates of spruce, birch, jungle, acacia, and dark oak wood.
 Doors of spruce, birch, jungle, acacia, and dark oak wood.
New stone types, all can be found underground:
 Andesite
Can be crafted using a cobblestone and a diorite.
 Polished Andesite
 Diorite
Can be crafted using two cobblestones and two Nether quartz in a checkerboard pattern.
 Polished Diorite
 Granite
Can be crafted using a Nether quartz and a diorite.
 Polished Granite
New prismarine blocks, all can be found in ocean monuments:
 Prismarine
Can be crafted using four prismarine shards.
 Prismarine Bricks
Can be crafted using nine prismarine shards.
 Dark Prismarine
Can be crafted using an ink sac surrounded by eight prismarine shards.
 Sea Lantern
Can be crafted using four prismarine shards and five prismarine crystals in a + formation.
New red sandstone blocks:
 Red Sandstone
Found in mesa biomes.
Can also be crafted using four red sand.
 Red Sandstone Stairs
 Red Sandstone Slab
 Smooth Red Sandstone
 Chiseled Red Sandstone
New items
 Prismarine Crystals
Obtained as drops from guardians and elder guardians.
Used to craft sea lanterns.
 Prismarine Shard
Obtained as drops from guardians and elder guardians.
Used to craft prismarine blocks.
 Rabbit Hide
Obtained as drops from rabbits.
Used to craft leather.
 Rabbit Stew
Crafted using a cooked rabbit, a mushroom, a carrot, a baked potato, and a bowl.
Restores 10 () hunger and gives 12 hunger saturation.
 Rabbit's Foot
Obtained as drops from rabbits.
Can be used to brew potion of Leaping.
 Raw Mutton and its  cooked variant
Obtained as drops from sheep.
Raw mutton restores 2 () hunger and gives 1.2 hunger saturation.
Cooked mutton restores 6 () hunger and gives 9.6 hunger saturation.
 Raw Rabbit and its  cooked variant
Obtained as drops from rabbits.
Raw rabbit restores 3 () hunger and gives 1.8 hunger saturation.
Cooked rabbit gives 5 () hunger and gives 6 hunger saturation.
New potion:
 Potion of Leaping
Brewed by using a rabbit's foot.
Spawn eggs:
 Endermite Spawn Egg
 Guardian Spawn Egg
 Rabbit Spawn Egg
New mobs
 Endermite
Has a 5% chance of spawning whenever a player uses an ender pearl.
Endermen are aggressive to it.
 Guardian
Spawns in ocean monuments.
Attacks players and squids with a beam that charges gradually.
Players that try to attack it while its spikes are deployed causes them to receive Thorns-like damage.
Drops prismarine shards, prismarine crystals, and raw fish when killed.
 Elder Guardian
Three spawns in ocean monuments.
When in close proximity to a ocean monument, an elder guardian inflicts the player Mining Fatigue III for 5 minutes.
Has similar attacks and mechanics to regular guardians, but with greater health and more powerful attacks.
Drops wet sponge, raw fish, and prismarine crystals when killed.
 Rabbit
Spawns in plains, extreme hills, forest, swamps, jungles, birch forests, roofed forests, cold taiga, mega taigas, and savannas.
Comes in seven different skins.
One skin can be obtained by naming a rabbit "Toast", as a memorial to Reddit user xyzen420's girlfriend's rabbit, Toast.
Can be bred using carrots, golden carrots, or dandelions
Drops rabbit hide, raw rabbit (or cooked rabbit if under fire), or rabbit's foot when killed.
 "The Killer Bunny"
Only available through commands.
Is a hostile version of the rabbit that can deal 12HP × 6 hearts of damage on Hard difficulty.
New non-mob entities
 Armor Stand
Crafted using a stone slab and six sticks.
Used to display armor, including pumpkins and mob heads.
New structures
 Ocean monument
Found in ocean biomes.
Spawn with guardians and three elder guardians.
Prismarine blocks, sponges, and eight gold blocks can be found here.
New gameplay
 New skin options, including the addition of a second skin named "Alex"
Skins now have an additional second layer that goes over their arms, body, and legs.
Arms now can be smaller or larger, with Alex to represent skins with smaller arms.
Arm and legs are now editable independently.
 Spectator mode
While in this mode, players are invisible to others and can freely roam around through blocks.
Players can view the perspective of a mob or any other entity.
Players cannot load new chunks while in this mode, nor can they interact with any inventory or look at the inventory of other players.
Customized world type
Allows customization of the world, with the following settings:
Page one deals with structures, how they are generated and in what biome.
Page two tackles ore distribution generation, how rare they are, the height range, and their blob size.
Page three and four tackles terrain generation.
Seven preset are available:
"Water World", "Isle Land", "Caver's Delight", "Mountain Madness", "Drought", "Caves of Chaos", and "Good Luck"
Debug mode world type
Can be selected by holding ⇧ Shift while cycling through "World type".
Displays all possible blocks with all their possible data values and block states in a grid like system.
The player is forced into spectator mode when using this world type.
World boundary
There is now a new visible world border at around 30 million blocks away from the center of the world.
Players outside the border take damage.
Where the border is can be manually set using the /worldborder command.
 Enchanting
Depth Strider
Allows players to move faster in water.
New mapmaking features
5 new gamerules:
logAdminCommands, randomTickSpeed, reducedDebugInfo, sendCommandFeedback and showDeathMessages
5 new statistics:
crouchOneCm, sprintOneCm, talkedToVillager, timeSinceDeath, tradedWithVillager
12 new commands:
/blockdata, /clone, /entitydata, /execute, /fill, /particle, /replaceitem, /stats, /testforblocks, /title, /trigger and /worldborder
13 new NBT tags:
BlockEntityTag, CanDestroy, CanPlaceOn, CommandStats, generation, HideFlags, Lock, NoAI, PickupDelay, rewardExp, SelectedItem, ShowParticles and Silent
New selector @e for targeting entities
Notable changes
Rebalances to the enchanting and repairing systems.
Enchanting now consumes lapis lazuli
Beacons may be colored with stained glass.
Mossy cobblestone, mossy stone bricks, and chiseled stone bricks are now obtainable by crafting.
Cracked stone bricks and sponge are now obtainable by smelting.
Item frames now emit a redstone signal, and can rotate to 8 directions.
Daylight sensors may now be inverted.
Powered activator rail now dismounts entities riding minecarts.
Arrows decelerate much more quickly underwater, and extinguish if on fire.
Pets show death message if named with a name tag
Difficulty is now stored per world.
Improvements to mobs' behavior and AI:
Most mobs can now swim - notably, slimes
Most mobs can now pathfind as zombies have - notably, angry zombie pigmen
Skeletons flee from wolves
Spiders no longer see players through solid blocks
Iron golems attack creepers
Babies' growth can be accelerated by feeding them
Most mobs flee from a creeper about to explode - though this feature was reverted in 1.8.1
Creepers, skeletons, wither skeletons and zombies drop their heads when killed by charged creepers
Villagers:
Farmer villagers now harvest crops.
Breed only when willing.
Turn to witches when struck by lightning.
A new trading system has been implemented:
Villagers now have distinguishing professions and careers that affect what trades they are willing to offer.
Brown robe villagers include farmers, fisherman, shepherds, and fletchers.
White robe villagers include librarians.
Purple robe villagers include clerics.
Black apron villagers include armorer, weaponsmith, and toolsmith.
White apron villagers include butchers and leather workers.
Villagers have 2-4 trades available from the start.
The more trades that the player does, villagers level up and offer additional trades.
Trading villagers give the player experience.
Mapmaking:
Interaction with blocks in Adventure Mode is disabled by default
Many new arguments and scopes for existing commands
Block models are now customizable via resource packs
Signs and books can use JSON-formatted text
Monster spawners can be quickly changed using spawn eggs
Performance changes:
VBOs (Vertex Buffer Object) toggle was added to Video Settings menu.
Anisotropic Filtering was removed.
Advanced OpenGL was removed in favor of a new Advanced Cave Culling Algorithm
Render Distance slider maximum has been increased to 32 chunks when using 64-bit Java and 2GB allocated RAM.
Grass now has a different texture when the graphics are put into "Fast".


== Further revisions ==
This update has nine minor versions, the most out of any major update in the full release of Java Edition.

1.8.1 brought performance optimizations and bug fixes.
1.8.2 brought new statistics and a frame time graph for the debug screen, as well as performance optimizations and bug fixes.
1.8.3 was released soon thereafter to fix a crash from 1.8.2.
In 1.8.4, 1.8.5, 1.8.6 and 1.8.7, a number of exploits and vulnerabilities were patched.
1.8.8 saw a new Realms mini game, the ability to use resource packs with Realms, and patches to more exploits.
1.8.9 added Realms notifications, as well as some bug fixes.


== Videos ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==