Conductivity is a block property that determines whether redstone signals can be conducted through them (i.e. powered). When conductive blocks receive a redstone signal, they are able to activate redstone mechanism components, and may be able to power adjacent redstone dust. Conductive and non-conductive blocks also have properties not related to redstone; for example, mob spawning, and suffocation.
Conductive blocks are often called opaque blocks because many common blocks that can be powered are opaque; for example, stone, dirt, wood. Non-conductive blocks are often called transparent blocks because the most common example is glass. However, whether or not you can see through the block does not determine whether a block can be powered. Most opaque blocks share a similar set of properties, and most transparent blocks share their own set.


== Properties ==
Opaque full blocks (like stone) tend to be conductive while partial blocks (like slabs) or transparent blocks (like glass) tend to be non-conductive. However, there are numerous exceptions (see below).
Many effects of conductivity are non-obvious. Minecraft does not have a single "solid" property for blocks, and for historical reasons, conductivity is sometimes used when a test for solidity is needed.

Common properties of conductive blocks:

can be powered
prevent chests from opening when placed on top of them
suffocates mobs inside them
can "cut" redstone dust (prevent redstone dust from connecting vertically, see image)
redstone dust can transmit a signal up or down a conductive block
redstone comparators can measure block state through a conductive block unless its power level is 15.
Other properties may include:

bats can hang upside down on conductive blocks
ghast fireballs start fires on conductive blocks
minecarts "bounce off" conductive blocks if a minecart passes over a powered rail pointing into a conductive block
Common properties of non-conductive blocks:

cannot be powered
do not prevent chest from opening when placed on top of them
do not suffocate mobs inside them
mobs cannot spawn inside conductive blocks. Conductive blocks also play a part in the pack spawning algorithm‌[Java Edition  only].
do not cut redstone dust (prevent from connecting vertically)
redstone dust can only transmit a signal up a non-conductive block, not down ‌[Java Edition  only]
redstone comparators cannot measure block state through non-conductive blocks
Other properties may include:

bats cannot hang upside down on them
ghast fireballs do not start fires on them
minecarts stop when passing over a powered rail and colliding with a non-conductive block
Unique conductive blocks
As noted above, most conductive blocks are full solid blocks with the exception of soul sand and mud (7/8 of a block tall). 
Mangrove roots, monster spawners‌[Bedrock Edition  only], trial spawners‌[Bedrock Edition  only], closed shulker boxes‌[Bedrock Edition  only], big dripleaf‌[Bedrock Edition  only] and barriers are the only conductive blocks that can be waterlogged.
Target blocks and jukeboxes are unique in that they connect to adjacent redstone dust.[verify for Bedrock Edition]
Unique non-conductive blocks
Blocks of redstone, observers, and pistons are full solid blocks made of materials with the solid-blocking property, but are non-conductive.
Non-conductive block placement behavior
Many non-conductive blocks exhibit their own unique behavior regarding what blocks can be placed on them, and what blocks they can be placed on. See Opacity/Placement.
For example, leaves are a full solid non-conductive block, but certain redstone-related blocks cannot be placed on them: 

Redstone dust
Redstone repeater
Redstone comparator
Button
Lever
Tripwire hook
Rail, and its varieties


== List of conductive blocks ==
This list contains the basic forms of blocks that share common properties of conductive blocks. All variants of these blocks (e.g. bricks, smooth, polished, cracked, etc.) are also conductive.


== List of nonconductive blocks ==
This list contains blocks that share common properties of non-conductive blocks.


== Issues ==
Issues relating to "Conductive" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.


== See also ==
Solid block
Opacity


== Navigation ==