Crops are defined as "cultivated plants or agricultural produce, such as grain, vegetables, or fruit, considered as a group" and in Minecraft, may refer to the following food-related items and blocks:


== Minecraft ==
Farmland – a block specifically used for farming crops. Many crops require farmland in order to grow (see Farmland § Usage). It is created by using a hoe on dirt and some of its variants.
Wheat – planted wheat crop.
Wheat Seeds – harvested from fully-grown wheat planted from wheat seeds. Used to plant the wheat crop.
Wheat – harvested from fully-grown wheat planted from wheat seeds.
Beetroots – planted beetroot crop.
Beetroot Seeds – harvested from beetroots, used to plant the crop.
Beetroot – harvested from beetroots.
Carrots – planted carrot crop.
Carrot – harvested from carrots.
Potatoes – planted potato crop.
Potato – harvested from potatoes.
Poisonous Potato – harvested from potatoes.
Melon Stem - the crop that grows melons.
Melon Seeds – grows into a melon stem.
Melon – grows on the side of a melon stem. Melons can only grow on dirt or its variants, but they can be placed on any block.
Melon Slice – harvested from fully-grown melons, if mined without Silk Touch.
Pumpkin Stem - the crop that grows pumpkins.
Pumpkin Seeds – grows into a pumpkin stem.
Pumpkin – grows on the side of a pumpkin stem. Pumpkins can only grow on dirt or its variants, but they can be placed on any block.
Carved Pumpkin – a carved out version of a pumpkin.
Torchflower Crop – planted crop form of a torchflower. Looks the same as the flower form when fully grown.
Torchflower Seeds – a seed used to plant a torchflower crop, dug up by the sniffer.
Torchflower – a flower form of the torchflower, harvested from a torchflower crop.
Pitcher Crop – planted crop form of a pitcher plant. Looks different from the pitcher plant, since the crop has a bead at its base and the plant does not.
Pitcher Pod – a seed used to plant a pitcher crop, dug up by the sniffer.
Pitcher Plant – a flower form of the pitcher plant, harvested from a pitcher crop.
Bamboo Shoot – bamboo sapling, grows into a bamboo stalk.
Bamboo Stalk – a plant that extends upward as it grows.
Bamboo – harvested from a bamboo shoot or stalk, used to plant a bamboo sapling.
Cocoa – cocoa plant.
Cocoa Beans – harvested from cocoa plants, used to plant more cocoa plants. It can be planted on jungle logs and jungle wood.
Sugar Cane – harvested from itself. It can be planted on dirt or sand, if the block is adjacent to water, and it grows by extending upward.
Sweet Berry Bush – the crop that grows sweet berries.
Sweet Berries – harvested from a sweet berry bush.
Cactus – harvested from itself. Can only be planted on sand, and cannot have another block horizontally adjacent to it, and it grows by extending upward.
Mushrooms – harvested from themselves. As long they are planted in dark areas or on podzol or mycelium, they can be grown into a giant mushroom by using bone meal. They naturally spread under the same conditions.
Kelp – harvested from itself. It can be planted anywhere underwater.
Sea Pickle – harvested from itself. Should be planted on any alive coral block underwater. If all conditions are met can also spread over other coral blocks when planted.
Glow Berries – harvested from cave vines.
Nether Wart – harvested from itself. It can only be planted on soul sand, not on soul soil. It is primarily used for brewing.
Nether Fungi:
These are mushrooms that grow in the Nether. They can be planted on nylium and many other blocks (see Nether Fungus § Placement).
Crimson Fungus – found in crimson forests. If bone meal is used on it, it grows into a huge crimson fungus.
Warped Fungus – found in warped forests. If bone meal is used on it, it grows into a huge warped fungus.
Chorus Flower – harvested from itself. Grows into a large plant, growing more of itself, by extending upward and outward (see Chorus Flower § Placement and growth). Drops itself when broken. Breaks when hit with an arrow.
Chorus Plant – planted chorus. Grows from a chorus flower.
Chorus Fruit – harvested from chorus plants.


== Trivia ==
Many crops produce breaking sounds that are derived from other blocks' breaking sounds. For example: Wheat, carrots and potatoes have breaking sounds that are just a high-pitched variant of the dirt breaking sound, pumpkin and melon stems use the stone breaking sound, and in Bedrock Edition beetroot uses the wood breaking sound.
Planting crops in alternating rows does not reduce their growth rate (crops placed diagonally from the same type will have their grow rate halved).