Crowdin is a cloud-based localization platform used to make projects, such as websites, apps and games, universally accessible through translation. Minecraft: Java Edition and the Minecraft Launcher use Crowdin to enable community volunteers to translate the game into its over 100 available languages.
All other products by Mojang, such as Minecraft: Bedrock Edition, are instead translated by professional localizers rather than Crowdin volunteers.


== Projects ==
Minecraft has two projects on Crowdin: the translation of Minecraft: Java Edition and the translation of the Minecraft Launcher. Both Crowdin projects, which are open to the public, consist of over 100 different languages. Users can contribute to any of the languages listed on the project and require a Crowdin account to do so.


== Translators ==
A user who first joins the project is automatically a translator. Translators can contribute by selecting their language of choice, where they can start translating individual strings. Translators can upvote strings by clicking the + button after a listed string or downvote them by clicking the - button. The number after the buttons shows the net vote count of each string.
Each project on Crowdin has a dedicated discussions tab, visible to everyone, in which all project members can participate for formal communication. Likewise, every single string has its own comment section, shared between languages, for discussion on that particular string. However, for direct communication between translators and proofreaders, it is highly recommended to contact the proofreaders of each language, if possible.


== Proofreaders ==
Proofreaders are experienced users who have shown high engagement with the project. Having been translators in the past, they have consistently demonstrated a deep understanding of their language along with the willingness to cooperate to ensure the project is kept to the highest standards. When approving a translation into the game, they need to ensure consistency throughout the project, which requires familiarity with the game's strings. In addition, they need to account for the game's technical requirements, such as UI and variable limitations, where testing is often needed, as well as adjustments depending on the language. 
Moreover, proofreaders are responsible for enforcing Mojang's terminology. They also need to address questions and reports from translators in a timely manner, as well as take appropriate measures against bad actors. Finally, proofreaders coordinate with each other and, occasionally, with Mojang employees to resolve issues. Typically, each language has 1-2 active proofreaders.


== Languages ==

A language only appears in Minecraft: Java Edition and the Minecraft Launcher provided that it meets a high enough approval percentage on Crowdin. Especially in languages with little activity, some strings may not have been properly translated or proofread and can therefore contain mistakes, problems, or even vandalism. Mojang is not responsible for such content and, if an error is found in a language, it should not be reported in the bug tracker but instead addressed directly to the respective proofreaders on Crowdin.
Available languages, along with their current translations, are updated in the game and launcher occasionally, following minor or major updates, and hence, it may take a long time for changes on Crowdin to be reflected elsewhere. As of September 2022, language versions in the Java Edition project are no longer linked to individual game versions.


== Minecraft terminology ==
In January 2016, Mojang created a document of Minecraft terms that must be kept untranslated in all languages, as they are standard game terminology. Some of these terms include "Creeper", "Enderman" and "Nether". Mojang employees can also enforce specific translations in direct contact with proofreaders. The document is available here.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Minecraft project
Minecraft Launcher project


== Navigation ==