Damage is the reduction of an entity's health.


== Health ==

Players and mobs have a supply of health points, which are reduced when they are injured. One health point is half a heart, shown as 1HP.
Players have 20HP  10 health points, but that may vary by status effects. Mobs have varying numbers of health points, but these are not generally visible to players, with some exceptions: a player can see the health of a mount being ridden, a tamed wolf's health is indicated by its tail angle (90 degrees indicates it's at full health), the wither and ender dragon have boss bars that display their health, an iron golem's body shows cracks as its health declines, and an axolotl plays dead when its health is low.


== Damage ==
Damage from attacks or natural causes subtracts from a player or mob's current health. When their health reaches zero, they die.
Armor, horse armor, nautilus armor, and wolf armor absorb some of the damage that would have been done to their wearer.

Armor and wolf armor lose durability in the process.
Wolf armor absorbs all incoming damage, while armor, horse armor, and nautilus armor absorb a percentage.
When a player takes damage, along with their hurt sound being heard, a white outline will flash around the health bar on their HUD and their screen will tilt to signify that damage was taken.
In Java Edition, the flash occurs repeatedly for 1 second after taking damage, and unless the health bar is using the freeze damage graphics, it additionally shows pale-colored hearts equal to the amount of health that was just lost. If the player took damage from an entity, the screen tilt will be angled towards the entity that dealt the damage, creating an effect as if the player's head were being whipped to the side by inertia from the knockback (although the effect still occurs even if no knockback was caused). If no entity was involved or the damage was dealt through an explosion, then it will "remember" the last direction that the screen tilted and reuse that, defaulting to the player's left if no damage has been taken from entities since loading the world.
In Bedrock Edition, the health bar only flashes once, shows no pale hearts indicating the damage taken, and the screen always tilts to the left regardless of if the player was damaged by an entity or not.
The damage tilt can be adjusted and disabled in "Options"  "Accessibility Settings"  "Damage Tilt"[Java Edition  only] or "Settings"  "Accessibility"  "Damage Tilt".


== Storage and display ==
Health and damage are stored as floating-point numbers in units of half-hearts. When displaying the HUD, fractional values are rounded up to the next integer; for example, 6.2HP  3.1 is shown as 7HP.


== Adjustments ==
The damage that a mob take can be adjusted by the following factors:

Invulnerability;
Armor point and armor toughness;
Armor enchantments (Protection, Blast Protection, Fire Protection, Projectile Protection and Feather Falling);
These enchantments can reduce up to 20% of the original damage.
Mob-specific adjustments;
Magic damage dealt to witches is reduced to 15% of the original damage.
Damage dealt to all parts of the ender dragon except the head is modified to 14  original damage + min(1, original damage).
Damage dealt to armadillo when it rolls up is (original damage - 1) / 2. In Bedrock Edition, damage with type self_destruct is not affected by this.
In Bedrock Edition, the damage from lightning that the turtle and axolotl take is 2000  original damage, or 10000HP  5000.
Mob armor;
A wolf wearing wolf armor doesn't take damage from most sources; Instead, the wolf armor consumes durability based on the original damage.
Resistance effect reduces the 20% of the original damage per level;
Resistance of level 5 or higher reduces almost all kinds of the damage the mobs take to 0HP.
In Bedrock Edition, if the damage taken by iron golem, snow golem, wither, ender dragon, frog, allay, mooshroom, bat, chicken, parrot, pig, turtle, villager, wandering trader, goat, axolotl, cat, ocelot, bee, fox, llama, ghast, blaze, creeper, magma cube, breeze and armadillo is less than 1HP and greater than 0HP, the damage taken is rounded up to 1HP.
Even if damage is reduced to 0HP, the damage is not cancelled; the other effects of the damage are not cancelled as well.
The following table shows the conditions under when damage adjustments can adjust the damage that the mobs take.


== Dealing damage ==
Players can deal damage and knockback by attacking most entities with targets at close (melee) range. Attacking without a weapon (or with items not intended for attacking) does 1HP damage. While falling, melee attacks deal a critical hit (150% of the weapon's damage, including potion effects, but before enchantments are applied, rounded down to the nearest hit point).
There are several melee weapons in the game:

Swords are a melee weapon that have exclusive access to Looting and Knockback. In Java Edition, they have high attack speed and the highest DPS, and can do sweep attacks that hit multiple entities at once.
Axes are a melee weapon that can disable shields. In Java Edition, they have low attack speeds and higher damage than their sword counterparts.
Maces are a melee weapon that can do smash attacks, dealing more damage the farther a player falls before attacking and nullifying fall damage. In Java Edition, they have the lowest attack speed of any melee weapon. In Bedrock Edition, they have the highest DPS versus entities wearing diamond armor or better when enchanted with Breach IV, greater than that of even Sharpness V netherite swords.
Spears are a melee weapon with longer reach that can do charge attacks. The damage of the charge attack scales with speed. However, they cannot hit if the target is within a 2-block radius of attacker.
Pickaxes and shovels can be used as melee weapons to deal more damage than bare fists. In Java Edition, pickaxes have middling attack speed greater than that of axes but slower than that of swords. Shovels are strictly inferior to axes, having the same attack speed as most axes but with lower damage.
Hoes can also be used as a melee weapon. In Bedrock Edition, they deal identical damage to pickaxes of the same tier, while in Java Edition they are strictly inferior to bare fists.
Any other item (excluding tridents) is equivalent to bare fists.
There is one weapon in the game that functions as both a melee weapon and a throwable projectile:

Tridents are a melee weapon that can be thrown as a projectile. They have higher damage than any sword type, aside from in Bedrock Edition where their damage is identical to that of a netherite sword. In Java Edition, they have a low attack speed that is slightly lower than that of pickaxes.
There are several ranged weapons, throwable projectiles, and ammunition types in the game:

Bows are a ranged weapon that can shoot arrows at varying strength and speed. They have slightly lower damage than crossbows, but can exceed crossbows in damage with the Power enchantment.
Crossbows are a ranged weapon that can shoot arrows at any time after being charged in advance. They have slightly longer charging time than bows, but can exceed bows in charging speed with the Quick Charge enchantment. They can also use firework rockets as ammunition.
Arrows are ammunition used by bows and crossbows. When shot by a bow, their damage depends on the charging state of the bow prior to firing. The damage of a arrow fired at maximum charge, called critical charge for bows, is 6-11 randomly for bows and 7-11 randomly for crossbows.
Firework rockets are ammunition used by crossbows that explode on impact with blocks and entities. They deal damage only when crafted with firework stars, with their damage depending on the amount of firework stars used to craft them. The damage of a maxed firework shot by a crossbow is 11-18 randomly.
Snowballs and eggs are projectiles that can be used to knock back mobs, but not players. Snowballs deal damage in addition to their knockback when used against blazes.
Splash potions and lingering potions are projectiles that inflict various effects depending on their type. Splash potions deal their effects on impact, while lingering potions do not, instead leaving a lingering cloud of their effect on the ground.
Fishing rods in Bedrock Edition can be used to knock back entities when attaching.
The values below on the table show the base damage dealt per hit using various weapons. Critical hits do 50% extra damage.


=== Damage by weapon ===
Java Edition:
Damage calculation starts with the weapon's base damage, then adds damage from effects, then multiplies by 1.5 if it's a critical hit, and then adds damage from enchantments.

Bedrock Edition:


=== Attack cooldown ===

When a player swings a weapon or switches to a weapon, they are locked into a cooldown meter that limits how much damage they can deal and requires them to wait before being able to deal maximum damage again. The base damage done depends on the time between attacks, and is also reflected in the height of the held weapon on screen and the attack indicator bar. The fill-level of the attack indicator bar (as a proportion of its total width) is exactly equal to the damage the held weapon would deal if it were used now, in proportion to its maximum damage. Therefore, the attack indicator appears fully charged when the damage dealt after cooldown reaches 100% of the maximum. There are settings for the attack indicators in the options menu. At 84.8% attack cooldown charge, critical hits, sweep attacks, and sprint-knockback attacks become possible.

The attack_speed attribute controls the length of the cooldown time, with the time taken being T = 20 / attack_speed ticks. The damage multiplier is then 0.2 + ((t + 0.5) / T) ^ 2 * 0.8, restricted to the range 0.2  1, where t is the number of ticks since the last attack or item switch.
Damage done by enchantments (Sharpness, Smite, and Bane of Arthropods) is also reduced, but not as severely (the multiplier is not squared):


=== Critical hit ===

A critical hit is a type of attack that deals extra damage compared to a regular attack. Critical hits cause small cross-shaped particles to fly out of the target. A critical hit is performed when a player attacks an entity while falling, and increases the damage of the attack by 50% (after strength is applied and before[JE  only] / after[BE  only] enchantments or armor are applied).
In Java Edition, critical hits can be performed only if the attack cooldown of the weapon is at 84.8% or higher. Critical hits cannot be performed at the same time as sprint-knockback attacks. They also cannot be performed while in water, while climbing a ladder or vines (including its variants), while under the effect of Slow Falling or Blindness, while riding a mount, or while flying.


=== Maximum damage values ===
In Survival mode, the maximum damage that can be dealt by a player depends on various factors.
Melee attack
Java Edition

With a sword:
Maximum damage to undead or arthropod mobs is 33.5HP  16.75 damage.
8HP from a netherite sword, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit, + 12.5HP  6.25 from Smite V or Bane of Arthropods V respectively.
Maximum damage to players or ordinary mobs is 24HP  12 damage.
8HP from a netherite sword, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit, + 3HP from Sharpness V.
Maximum damage to players wearing full Protection IV netherite armor is 3.38688HP  1.69344 damage.
8HP from a netherite sword, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit, + 3HP from Sharpness V.
With an axe:
Maximum damage to undead or arthropod mobs is 36.5HP  18.25 damage.
10HP from a netherite axe, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit, + 12.5HP  6.25 from Smite V or Bane of Arthropods V respectively.
Maximum damage to players or ordinary mobs is 27HP  13.5 damage.
10HP from a netherite axe, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit, + 3HP from Sharpness V.
Maximum damage to players wearing full Protection IV netherite armor is 4.04352HP  2.02176 damage.
10HP from a netherite axe, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit, + 3HP from Sharpness V.
With a trident:
Maximum damage to aquatic mobs is 35HP  17.5 damage.
9HP from a trident, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit, + 12.5HP  6.25 damage from Impaling V.
Maximum damage to players or ordinary mobs is 22.5HP  11.25 damage.
9HP from a trident, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit.
Maximum damage to players wearing full Protection IV netherite armor is 3.078001HP  1.5390005 damage.
9HP from a trident, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit.
With a mace:
Without smash attacks:
Maximum damage to undead or arthropod mobs is 30.5HP  15.25 damage.
6HP from a mace, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit, + 12.5HP  6.25 from Smite V or Bane of Arthropods V respectively.
Maximum damage to players or ordinary mobs is 18HP  9 damage.
6HP from a mace, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit.
Maximum damage to players wearing full Protection IV netherite armor is 6.117121HP  3.0585605 damage.
6HP from a mace, + 6HP from Strength II, + 50% from a critical hit, - 60% armor effectiveness from Breach IV.
With smash attacks:
Maximum damage to any player or mob is  (  ) damage.
Bedrock Edition

Maximum damage to undeads or arthropods is 41.25HP  20.625 damage, consisting of 8HP from netherite sword + 12.5HP  6.25 from Smite V for undead mobs or Bane of Arthropods V for arthropod mobs + 7HP from strength II, all  1.5 from a critical hit (+ 13.75HP  6.875 damage).
Maximum damage to non-undead and non-arthropod on land is 31.875HP  15.9375 damage, consisting of 8HP from netherite sword + 6.25HP  3.125 from Sharpness V + 7HP from Strength II, all  1.5 from a critical hit (+ 10.625HP  5.3125 damage).
Maximum damage to players and mobs on water or during rain is 42.75HP  21.375 damage, consisting of 9HP of melee trident + 12.5HP  6.25 from Impaling V + 7HP from strength II, all  1.5 from a critical hit (+ 14.25HP  7.125 damage). (Also works with Riptide)
By use of a mace smash attack, the maximum damage that can be dealt by a player is unlimited.
Ranged attack

With a bow:
Maximum damage to players and mobs is 25HP  12.5 damage, from a maximum damage-roll shot at critical charge with the Power V enchantment.
Using arrows of harming does not increase damage output. This is because the damage increase from an arrow of harming is ignored if the damage of the ranged weapon exceeds it, rather than adding the two together. In this case, the bow with Power V does 25 damage, which is greater than the arrow of harming's damage increase (12), which causes the arrow of harming's damage to be ignored.
With a crossbow:
Maximum damage to players and mobs is 18HP  9 damage, from a maximum damage-roll shot using a firework rocket crafted with 7 firework stars.
The Multishot enchantment does not increase damage output, because only one of the projectiles can deal damage at a time.


== Invulnerability timer ==

After sustaining damage from any source, a mob or player turns red for 10 game ticks (0.5 seconds). During this period, the target is invulnerable to most kinds of further damage. For instance, if the player attacks a mob by repeatedly hitting the attack button, attacks that land while the mob is invulnerable deal no damage, and do not reduce the durability of a melee weapon. Unsuccessful attacks also do not anger neutral mobs. This mechanic is called the invulnerability timer.
While invulnerable, any damage less than or equal to the original damage that caused the invulnerability is ignored. However, any higher damage (before accounting for armor, enchantments, or status effects) causes only the difference between the original and new damage amounts to be dealt. For example, if a mob is attacked with a weapon dealing 7HP damage and then attacked with another weapon dealing 12HP  6 damage while invulnerable, the second hit deals 5HP damage (resulting in 12HP  6 total). This does not reset invulnerability.
In Java Edition, when an attack deals a fatal amount of damage to a mob so that it dies while invulnerable, its death sound is not triggered. This has never been fixed.


== Inflicted by mobs ==


== Natural damage ==
Besides mob attacks, players can take damage from several other sources.


=== Lightning damage ===
Lightning striking on or near the player inflicts 5HP damage, which can be reduced with armor. Natural lightning strikes on the player are rare and occur only during thunderstorms. Players and mobs that get hit by lightning are set on fire, which is quickly extinguished by the rain during a thunderstorm.


=== Fall damage ===

Players and most mobs take damage when hitting the ground after falling a certain distance. 
Fall damage is based on the change in an entity's Y coordinate, and not how fast the entity is moving. Most mobs take fall damage after falling more than 3 blocks; however, some mobs are able to fall farther before taking damage. How far a mob can safely fall is controlled by the safe_fall_distance attribute.
Most mobs take about 1HP damage for every block fallen over their safe fall distance. Some mobs take a different amount of fall damage per block fallen, determined by a multiplier stored in the fall_damage_multiplier attribute.
The amount of fall damage a mob takes is determined by the formula:

where the Ceiling function rounds the answer up to the nearest whole number.
While a fall of 23 blocks should be enough to kill a player at full health, a fall of at least 23.5 blocks is required to kill the player because the game checks if the player is on the ground and calculates fall damage before updating the player's fall distance.


==== Fall damage resistance ====
Armor itself does not reduce fall damage; however, armor enchanted with Feather Falling or Protection does.
Some status effects reduce fall damage:

Slow Falling - Negates all fall damage. If the effect wears off mid-air, the entity takes damage only for the height difference between where the effect ended and where the entity lands.
Resistance - Reduces most damage (including fall) by 20% per level.
Jump Boost - In addition to increasing jump height, it also reduces fall damage by 1HP per level.
Every player is immune to fall damage when the game rule fallDamage is set to false. Players who can fly are not immune to fall damage and take fall damage for the change in Y from where they stop flying to where they land.
Monsters that are immune to fall damage:

Blaze
Breeze
Creaking summoned by creaking heart.
Ender Dragon
Ghast
Magma Cube
Phantom
Shulker
Vex
Wither
Friendly mobs that are immune to fall damage:

Agent
Allay
Bat
Bee
Cat
Chicken
Copper Golem
Happy Ghast
Iron Golem
NPC
Ocelot
Parrot
Snow Golem
Other mobs with resistance to fall damage:

These mobs take damage after falling more than 6 blocks and take half of the normal fall damage (fall_damage_multiplier = 0.5)
Camel
Camel Husk
Donkey
Horse
Llama
Mule
Skeleton Horse
Trader Llama
Zombie Horse
This mob always takes 10HP less fall damage:
Goat
This mob always takes 5HP less fall damage:
Frog
This mob takes fall damage after falling more than 5 blocks, and its fall damage is not affected by Jump Boost:
Fox


===== Sound =====
For most solid blocks, if a player or mob falls onto the blocks and takes damage, a sound plays and is transmitted to the environment. No sound is played or transmitted if the entity doesn't take damage. Falling from a small height (47 blocks) plays a thud sound, and falling from a larger height (8 or more blocks) gives a click or cracking sound.


==== Fall damage reduction ====
In some cases, falling damage can be mitigated or entirely avoided:
Sneaking prevents a player from falling off a drop of one block or greater.
The following cases reset the player or mob's change in Y:

Colliding with a cobweb.
A minecart's change in Y is reset when landing on rails.
Entering or being in water (when not in a boat) resets the change in Y. This includes falling into the water of any depth, as long as the entity collides with the water before colliding with the ground.
Entering powder snow while falling.
Successfully landing a smash attack with a mace.
Eating a chorus fruit.
Teleporting due to a thrown ender pearl; however, the teleportation itself causes 5HP fall damage to players.
Moving into a ladder or vine's area of effect resets the fall distance. This also applies to trapdoors acting as a ladder.
Spiders climbing a block, count the block as a "ladder" for this purpose.
These can potentially increase fall damage:
Being hit by a wind charge causes the change in y to be measured from where the wind charge hit the entity, rather than where the entity started falling.
Levitation sets the change in y to 0 while it is active. Therefore, the change in y is measured from where the entity starts falling after Levitation runs out.
The following cases reduce or negate all fall damage:

Being in lava reduces the change in Y by half a block each game tick.
Flying using elytra such that the vertical movement is upward, level or less than 0.5 blocks per game tick downward resets the change in Y to 1 block.
Wearing armor that is enchanted with Feather Falling or Protection reduces fall damage based on the level of the enchantment.
Having the Jump Boost status effect reduces the effective change in Y by 1 block per level, e.g., falling 5 blocks with Jump Boost II counts as having fallen only 3.
Slime blocks negate all fall damage, but bounce the entity into the air. Sneaking when hitting the slime block negates fall damage and stops the bounce.
Hay bales and honey blocks decrease fall damage to 20% of normal.
Beds decrease fall distance to 50% of the actual distance fallen, which usually reduces fall damage to less than half of the normal amount.
Sweet berry bushes negate all fall damage.
Holding sneak while landing on at least a two-block-high stack of scaffolding negates fall damage from any height. Only 1 scaffolding block is needed to negate damage from smaller heights.
Slow falling status effect completely negates all fall damage but causes the entity to fall slowly.
Contact the void floor.[Bedrock Edition  only]
Riding a horse negates all fall damage from the player, but the horse itself can die if it hits the ground too hard.
The following cases do not reduce any fall damage:

Boats do not accumulate any change in Y while in water deeper than 1 block.
Falling onto the top of a ladder does not reset the change in Y and counts as hitting the ground.
Horses are unaffected by ladders and vines, and so their change in Y is not reset.
An entity riding another entity does not accumulate any change in Y. However, when the ridden entity takes fall damage, it damages all riders for the same change in Y.


=== Falling block ===
Falling block entities deal damage to players and mobs in the same block space where they land. The damage is dealt only on landing, and is not dealt to players and mobs that collide with falling block entities in mid-air.
A falling anvil deals 2HP per block fallen after the first block (e.g., an anvil that falls 4 blocks deals 6HP damage). A falling stalactite deals 6HP per block fallen after the first block (e.g., a stalactite that falls 4 blocks deals 18HP  9 damage).
The damage is capped at 40HP  20, no matter how far the anvil or stalactite falls.
Helmets takes twice as much durability damage as other armor pieces, but does not provide any special protection other than the normal armor damage reduction.
If cheats are enabled, a falling block entity that deals damage can be summoned if its HurtEntities tag is set to true. The amount of damage dealt per block fallen can be customized via the FallHurtAmount tag, and the maximum damage dealt can be customized via the FallHurtMax tag.


=== Thorns enchantment ===
When a player or mob deals melee or projectile damage to a player or mob that is wearing Thorns-enchanted armor, part of the damage is reflected back at the attacker. The amount varies with the enchantment level. (Level * 15% chance of inflicting 1HP4HP damage, or Level - 10 damage if level is over 10) however, thorns increases the amount of durability lost per hit on the enchanted armor.


=== Suffocation ===
Suffocation occurs when a player or mob's eyeline is inside of certain blocks, receiving 1HP damage every half-second. They also become black entities. 
Blocks that are transparent or do not fill an entire block do not cause damage, these include:

Amethyst cluster
Anvil
Bamboo
Banners
Bed
Bell
Brewing stand
Cake
Cauldron
Chest
Chorus flower
Chorus plant
Cocoa
Copper chain
Redstone comparator
Composter
Daylight detector
Dragon egg
Enchanting table
End portal frame
Ender chest
Fences
Fence gates
Flower pot
Glass
Grindstone
Heads
Honey block
Hopper
Iron bars
Iron chain
Leaves
Lectern
Lightning rod
Mangrove roots
Extended  piston head
Redstone repeater
Saplings
Slabs that are not double
Stairs
Stonecutter
Trapdoor
Walls

Despite being fully to partially transparent, the following can cause suffocation:

Barrier
Beacon
Ice
Slime block
Monster spawner
Additionally, dirt path and farmland can also cause suffocation, regardless of them not being full blocks.
The player's screen displays a darkened form of the block in which the player is suffocating.
In Bedrock Edition, an oxygen bar is also present in the suffocation process. Water Breathing effects can prevent suffocation in Bedrock Edition.
Creakings spawned from a creaking heart are immune to suffocation damage.
The usual ways an entity can suffocate are:

Sand, gravel or concrete powder falling into the space the entity occupies.
Riding a pig, boat, or minecart into a one-block-high space.
Riding a horse, llama, or strider into a two-block-high space.
Standing where a tree just grew from a sapling, where a huge mushroom just grew from a mushroom, or where a huge fungus just grew from a nether fungus.
Standing where an end gateway appeared after killing the dragon.
Having a solid block pushed into the entity's head with a piston.
Sleeping in a bed surrounded by blocks or having a solid block above it.[Bedrock Edition  only]
Being teleported into a block or having one placed onto the entity via commands (including /setblock, /fill, or /clone).
When playing on a distant server, sometimes broken blocks can reappear due to lag, and if the player moves where the block respawned, it can provoke suffocation (for example, chopping down a tree by moving right below the trunk).
When water and lava meet, and create a cobblestone, stone, or obsidian block on the entity's head.
Standing a certain distance outside of the world border, configurable with /worldborder damage buffer (default is 5 blocks).
Summoning an entity inside a block through spawn eggs, commands, or with a golem or wither structure lying down.
Standing in 2 block deep water in snowy and cold biomes where the topmost layer of water freezes into ice
Throwing an ender pearl in a way that the player ends up inside a block they can suffocate in.


=== Entity cramming ===

In Java Edition, players and mobs take damage if too many entities are packed into the same block space. Specifically, the maxEntityCramming game rule defines the maximum number of entities that can be in a block without becoming crammed. Once the number of entities in the space of a single block exceeds this value, entity cramming occurs. Entities with the Invulnerable:1b NBT tag are not affected by entity cramming but do count toward the maxEntityCramming game rule limit. When entity cramming occurs, a random selection of cram count = (entities in block) - maxEntityCramming living entities (players and mobs) become crammed. A living entity can be crammed by non-living entities, such as minecarts or armor stands, but not by block-like entities, such as item frames. The block space used for counting the number of entities is the axis and grid-aligned 1-meter cubic space containing the centers of the entities. An entity outside this space can collide with the entities within the space, but it can not become crammed by the entities within the space.
When crammed, a player or mob takes 6HP suffocation damage with a 25% chance every game tick, as long as that player or mob is pushing greater than that number of other entities. The default value for maxEntityCramming is 24 entities. This means that up to 24 entities can coexist in one block space without getting crammed.
If an entity is climbing, it does not count toward the number of entities in the block and does not contribute to cramming. This means that climbable blocks, such as ladders, vines, and scaffolding can prevent entity cramming. However, spiders and cave spiders are always counted toward the number of entities in the block when they are climbing. This can cause entities on climbable blocks to become crammed.
If a player is killed by entity cramming damage, the death message reads <player> was squished too much.


=== Drowning ===

A player who runs out of air underwater begins drowning, taking 2HP damage per second. Damage is taken when the air supply value reaches -20. Usually, the air supply value decreases each game tick. It resets to 0 after being damaged. Respiration gives a chance for the air supply not to decrease per game tick. Chance is x/(x + 1), where x is the level of enchantment.
Monsters that are immune to drowning:

Bogged
Camel Husk
Creaking summoned by creaking heart.
Drowned
Elder Guardian
Ender Dragon
Guardian
Husk
Parched
Phantom
Skeleton
Skeleton Horse
Stray
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Zoglin
Zombie
Zombie Horse
Zombie Nautilus
Zombie Villager
Zombified Piglin
This monster isn't immune to drowning, but it can drink a water-breathing potion, making it partially immune to drowning:

Witch
Friendly mobs that are immune to drowning:

Agent
Axolotl
Copper Golem
Cod
Frog
Ghastling
Glow Squid
Iron Golem
Nautilus
NPC
Pufferfish
Salmon
Squid
Tadpole
Tropical Fish
Turtle
A popping sound is heard every time the air supply value reaches a number that is two more than a multiple of 30, or in other words, every time a bubble pops on the oxygen bar, with the popping sound becoming increasingly higher-pitched as the air supply value decreases, alerting the player that they're about to drown.
When the game rule drowningDamage is set to false, the air supply of players depletes normally, but no drowning damage is inflicted when players run out of air.
Mobs can also drown, although most mobs that can drown attempt to swim upward. Normally, mobs can remain underwater for 15 seconds before their air supply fully depletes. They can remain underwater for 16 seconds before actually beginning to take damage.

A squid, glow squid, tadpole, nautilus or any kind of fish suffocates in air instead of drowning in water.
Dolphins can suffocate in air or drown in water and must be given access to both to survive.
Aquatic mobs, undead mobs, iron golems and frogs are immune to drowning.
A zombie does not take drowning damage; instead, it begins the process of converting to a drowned mob when continuously in water for 30 seconds.
Similar to a zombie, a husk does not take damage from drowning, but first converts into a zombie, which then converts to a drowned if it remains underwater.
Piglins, piglin brutes and hoglins do not attempt to swim upward in water and drown as a result.
Because these mobs normally zombify outside the Nether before they can start drowning, this can happen only if their IsImmuneToZombification tag set to true, or that water is created in the Nether using commands.
When the player is no longer submerged in water or is in a bubble column, the air supply regenerates at a rate of 1 bubble every 0.2 seconds (4 game ticks). A Respiration helmet adds an additional on average 15 seconds duration underwater per enchantment level, and a turtle shell adds an additional 10 seconds. Water Breathing and Conduit Power regenerate the air supply. In Bedrock Edition, both effects affect squid and fish.


=== Starvation ===
When the hunger bar becomes empty (), the player takes 1HP damage every four seconds that is irrespective of armor, the Protection enchantment, and Resistance. In order to stop taking starvation damage, the player needs to eat food or drop to certain health thresholds; 10HP on Easy difficulty or 1HP on Normal difficulty. In Hard difficulty and Hardcore mode, the player always takes starvation damage regardless of health and the damage can kill the player.
The hunger system does not apply to mobs and, so they do not normally take starvation damage. However, the /damage command can still cause starvation damage to mobs, and vexes take starvation damage 30 to 119 seconds after having been summoned by an evoker.[Java Edition  only]


=== Environmental ===


==== Cactus ====
Players and mobs take 1HP damage every half-second when they are touching or within the same tile-space as a cactus.


==== Berry bush ====
Sweet berry bushes deals 1HP damage for every half-second when a player or mob is moving inside a sweet berry bush.
Monsters that are immune to berry bush damage:

Ender Dragon
Friendly mobs that are immune to berry bush damage:

Agent
Fox
NPC


=== Fire-related damage ===


==== Fire ====

When mobs and players without fire immunity stand on fire, they take 1HP damage every half-second and get burned. Standing in soul fire does 2HP damage every half-second instead. They continue burning after leaving the fire block. Fire damage can be prevented by the Fire Resistance effect. Fire duration can be decreased with the Fire Protection enchantment. Most Nether mobs are immune to fire, but they can still drown in lava.
Players do not take damage from fire if the game rule fireDamage is set to false.
Monsters that are immune to fire damage:

Blaze
Creaking summoned by creaking heart.
Ender Dragon
Ghast
Magma Cube
Shulker
Vex
Warden
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Zoglin
Zombified Piglin
Friendly mobs that are immune to fire damage:

Agent
NPC
Strider


==== Lava ====
Lava is a dangerous natural occurrence. Players and mobs (except some Nether mobs) get burned and take damage from contact with lava at a rate of 4HP every half-second, and they continue burning after they leave it. Fire Resistance nullifies both the direct damage from lava and the burning damage.
Players do not take damage from lava if the game rule fireDamage is set to false.


==== Burning ====
Players and many mobs burn when exposed to fire or lava or attacked by certain kinds of burning projectiles, Fire Aspect weapons, or burning zombies. In addition, armor itself does not reduce burning damage; to do so, armor needs either the Fire Protection enchantment, Protection enchantment, or the Resistance status effect. Burning obstructs the player's view slightly and, unless the player or mob has Fire Resistance, inflicts damage at a rate of 1HP per second. This is the same rate that the player gains health in Peaceful difficulty, so burning alone cannot kill the player in this mode. Burning lasts some amount of time depending on its cause, but it is extinguished by rain, water, or cauldrons.
Players do not take damage from burning if the game rule fireDamage is set to false.
Except for piglins, hoglins, skeletons, and endermen, mobs that spawn in the Nether do not burn and cannot be damaged by fire. Wardens also does not burn. Burning is not considered a status effect and therefore cannot be cured by milk.


==== Magma block ====
Mobs without fire immunity and players take 1HP damage every half-second if they are walking on magma blocks. This can be avoided by having the Fire Resistance effect, sneaking, or wearing Frost Walker-enchanted boots.
Players do not take damage from magma blocks if the game rule fireDamage is set to false.


==== Campfire ====
Players or mobs standing on top of a campfire take 1HP damage every half second. Standing in a Soul Campfire does 2HP damage every half second instead. Unlike any other damage sources, armor itself does not reduce campfire and soul campfire damage; to do so, armor needs either the Fire Protection enchantment, Protection enchantment, or the Resistance status effect. In Bedrock Edition, it also inflicts damage for 160 game ticks (8 seconds) after the player exits the block.
Players do not take damage from campfires if the game rule fireDamage is set to false.


=== Status effects ===

Status effects are either helpful or harmful conditions that can be given to players and mobs alike. They can be given in different ways: being in range of thrown splash potions or lingering potions, being afflicted by certain mobs' attacks, simply being near certain mobs, being near conduits and beacons, and eating specific types of food (such as rotten flesh or raw chicken). Status effects can last for a certain amount of time or can happen instantaneously.
Entities under a status effect emit colored particles, with the color of the particles resembling the type of status effect. Having multiple status effects combines the respective colors.


==== Instant damage ====

Instant Damage caused by potions or tipped arrows can damage the player 6HP at level I and 12HP  6 at level II. This damage occurs instantaneously. Undead mobs are instead healed, but are similarly damaged by the Healing effect. Zombified piglins that are splashed by an Instant Damage potion do not attack the player who threw it, as it heals them.


==== Poison ====

Cave spiders, witches and bees can poison other mobs and players when they attack (if the game is not on Easy difficulty). Some mobs, like the wither and bogged are resistant to the Poison effect and can not be poisoned. Pufferfish inflict Poison as a defense against players and some mobs if they are nearby. A player can poison themself by eating a spider eye, poisonous potato, pufferfish, or a suspicious stew made out of lily of the valley. Drinking or being hit by a potion or arrow of poison also results in poisoning. While poisoned, the hearts in the health meter turn from HP  10 (HP  10 on Hardcore) to an olive green (HP  10)(HP  10 on Hardcore) and the player takes 1HP every 25 ticks (1.25 seconds) on level I. See Poison for a table for higher levels. The Poison itself cannot kill the player, but it can reduce them to half a heart (HP), thus leaving them vulnerable to damage from other sources.
Monsters that are immune to poison:

Bogged
Camel Husk
Cave Spider
Drowned
Ender Dragon
Husk
Parched
Phantom
Skeleton
Skeleton Horse
Spider
Stray
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Zoglin
Zombie
Zombie Horse
Zombie Nautilus
Zombie Villager
Zombified Piglin
Friendly mobs that are immune to poison:

Agent
Nautilus
NPC


==== Wither ====

Withers and wither skeletons inflict the Wither effect with their attacks (the wither skulls do not inflict the effect on easy difficulty). This darkens the health bar to HP  10 on Survival and HP  10 on Hardcore, while inflicting damage over time. The effect deals 1HP every 2 seconds (40 ticks) for the wither skeleton's attack (level I), and every second for the wither's skulls (level II). Wither roses also inflict the Wither effect to any mobs colliding it. Players also get the Wither effect after eating suspicious stew made out of wither rose or when hit by potion or an arrow of decay.[Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Education  only] Unlike Poison, withering can kill on any difficulty level, and the darkened health bar makes it harder to keep track of the damage, which the only way is seeing the white spark on the left of the heart.
Monsters that are immune to wither effect:

Ender Dragon
Wither
Wither Skeleton
Friendly mobs that are immune to wither effect:

Agent
NPC


=== Magic damage ===
Magic damage bypasses armor, but can be reduced by the Protection enchantment and the Resistance effect. It is dealt by multiple sources:

Instant Damage and Poison
Instant Health on undead mobs
Ender Dragon breath attack
Evoker Fang
Guardian and Elder Guardian beam (only 1HP part is magic)
Conduit attack, which damages all monsters
Monsters that are immune to magic damage:

Bogged from Poison and Instant Damage.
Camel Husk from Poison and Instant Damage.
Cave Spider from Poison
Drowned from Poison and attacks from guardians and elder guardians.
Ender Dragon from all effects.
Enderman from Poison and Instant Damage shotted  by their arrow .
Evoker from its own fangs.
Husk from Poison and Instant Damage.
Illusioner from evoker fangs.
Parched from Poison and Instant Damage.
Phantom from Poison and Instant Damage.
Pillager from evoker fangs.
Skeleton  from Poison and Instant Damage.
Skeleton Horse from Poison and Instant Damage.
Spider from Poison.
Stray from Poison and Instant Damage.
Vindicator from evoker fangs.
Wither from Poison and Instant Damage.
Wither Skeleton from Poison and Instant Damage.
Zoglin from Poison and Instant Damage.
Zombie from Poison and Instant Damage.
Zombie Horse from Poison and Instant Damage.
Zombie Nautilus from Poison and Instant Damage.
Zombie Villager from Poison and Instant Damage.
Zombified Piglin from Poison and Instant Damage.
Friendly mobs that are immune to magic damage:

Agent
Nautilus from Poison.
NPC
There is no mob that is immune to conduit damage.


=== Void ===

If the player breaks through the bedrock barrier found at the bottom of worlds, the void can be seen. Players and mobs in the void below the Y-axis of -64[Bedrock Edition  only] or -128[Java Edition  only] take damage at a rate of about 4HP per half-second. The player usually dies from falling in the void, even in Creative or Spectator modes[Java Edition  only], but the player may be saved by throwing an ender pearl before falling below the Y-axis of -64[Bedrock Edition  only] or -128[Java Edition  only].
Falling into the void in the End is more likely, and is the only way to access the void in Survival mode without exploiting glitches.
By using /effect to give the player Regeneration 6 and higher or Instant Health, they can fall infinitely into the void without dying until the effect stops.
In Bedrock Edition, the player can survive in the void in Creative mode, but there is a one-way barrier at Y=-104 to prevent falling further into the void. However, this barrier can be teleported past by teleporting the player to any location with a Y value of -106 and below. The player continues falling until the player teleports away, flies back up, or crashes the game.


=== Explosions ===

Explosions cause varying amounts of damage based on the explosion strength, the entity's proximity to the explosion, and whether it is obstructed by solid blocks.


=== Firework rocket explosion ===

Firework rocket explosions can deal damage to entities if crafted with a firework star.
The maximum damage about is 6HP at the explosion's center with one firework star, decreasing to 1HP at the edge of a radius of 5 blocks (exclusive). Each additional firework star adds 2HP to the maximum.
If a rocket crafted with a firework star is used to provide a speed boost while gliding with elytra, it explodes as it is used, dealing 7HP damage to the player.


=== Freezing ===

 
When an entity is inside a powder snow block, they begin to freeze, taking damage. 
A player submerged in powder snow sees a frosty frame slowly fade in at the sides of the screen and the FOV slowly decreases. After 7 seconds (140 game ticks), the player's hearts change to a cyan frosty texture (), and the player begins taking damage at a rate of 1HP HP every two seconds (40 game ticks). If the player leaves the powder snow block, the vignette slowly fades away. A frozen player moves slower than usual until the vignette fully fades away. This is controlled by the TicksFrozen data tag, which increases by 1 every game tick (to a maximum of 300) for an entity within the powder snow block. It decreases at a rate of 2 per game tick after the entity leaves the powder snow block. This is currently not a separate effect when used with commands such as /effect give freezing, and does not have its own unique art, particles, or potion. 
Players do not take damage from powder snow if the game rule freezeDamage is set to false.
Mobs and players that are freezing have a shivering animation.
Wearing any piece of leather armor stops the freezing effect and damage. This applies to entities that can wear armor, such as zombies. Horses wearing leather horse armor also dont take damage from freezing. 
Monsters that are immune to freezing from powder snow:

Creaking summoned by creaking heart.
Ender Dragon
Skeleton
Stray
Wither
Friendly mobs that are immune to freezing from powder snow:

Agent
NPC
Polar Bear
Snow Golem
Mobs that can walk in powder snow:
Monsters that can walk in powder snow:

Endermite
Silverfish
Friendly mobs that can walk in powder snow:

Fox
Rabbit
Mobs that take extra damage from powder snow:
Monsters that take extra damage from powder snow:

Blaze
Magma Cube
Friendly mobs that take extra damage from powder snow:

Strider


== Sounds ==
Java Edition

Bedrock Edition:


== Achievements ==


== Advancements ==

(only applicable if shooting the specified entity(ies) with a crossbow).


== History ==


=== Development ===


=== Java Edition ===


=== Bedrock Edition ===


=== Legacy Console Edition ===


== Issues ==
Issues relating to "Damage" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.


== Trivia ==
Critical hits can be done while reflecting a ghast fireball, but does not change the damage or speed of it.
It is impossible to drown in Peaceful difficulty with a helmet enchanted with any level of Respiration, as the regeneration on Peaceful is higher than the reduced drowning damage.
When the player jumps while taking damage, the damage prevents the player from jumping.
This also applies to mobs that deal damage that prevents jumping.
In Creative mode, attacking a mob while flying after having descended scores a critical hit.
When the player dies when attacking, its animation stops and freezes as the player died.[Java Edition  only]
This previously occurred in the Pocket Edition, and Legacy Console Edition versions.
With all possible reductions to fall damage currently available in Survival (landing on a hay bale, Feather Falling IV boots, Protection IV on other armor pieces, and Resistance IV from a Potion of the Turtle Master) the maximum height the player can fall while surviving without Absorption is 3003 blocks. However, Slow Falling completely negates fall damage.
With the maximum Absorption effect possible in Survival (IV from an enchanted golden apple), and all the effects listed above, the player can survive a fall of 5403 blocks.
Riding a horse along with being under the effects of a beacon's Jump Boost II further increases the maximum falling distance to 9005 blocks.
In Legacy Console Edition, a player or mob taking fatal damage simply falls down instead of getting knocked back before disappearing.


== References ==


== Navigation ==