The Discovery Update is the name of the update for Pocket Edition, Windows 10 Edition, Gear VR Edition, Apple TV Edition, Fire TV Edition, and New Nintendo 3DS Edition that added most of the features from the Exploration Update and World of Color Update, including woodland mansions and glazed terracotta. Except for the Apple TV Edition and New Nintendo 3DS Edition, it marked the final named update before every platform was consolidated under the now-official term Bedrock Edition.
The update released as version 1.1.0 on June 1, 2017. For New Nintendo 3DS Edition, it was released as version 1.9.19 on January 15/16, 2019 and was the final update released for that platform.
The official name for the update, the Discovery Update, was revealed on March 29, 2017, in a blog post on the Minecraft website.


== Notable features ==

New blocks
 Beds in various different colors.
 Concrete
Obtained by having concrete powder come into contact with water.
 Concrete Powder
Crafted using four sand, four gravel, and the corresponding dye color.
Is affected by gravity like sand and gravel.
Upon contact with water, it converts over to concrete.
 Frosted Ice
Generates when stepping over water with boots enchanted with Frost Walker.
Melts fairly quickly upon generation.
Cannot be picked up with Silk Touch.
 Glazed Terracotta
Obtained by smelting the corresponding stained terracotta color.
Can be oriented in four different directions.
Does not stick to slime blocks if placed on the side, top, or bottom.
 Shulker Box
Crafted using a chest with two shulker shells enclosed on top and at the bottom.
Allows the player to access storage on the go by keeping any inventory it has when broken.
Can be dyed to any of the available colors.
New items
 Iron Nugget
Obtained by smelting iron armors or tools.
Can also be crafted using an iron ingot
Used to craft back into an iron ingot.
 Totem of Undying
Obtained as drops from evokers.
Holding it in the main hand or offhand resurrects the player upon being killed.
Absorption and Regeneration are granted upon activation.
Cannot prevent deaths when falling through the void.
 Explorer Map
Obtained by trading with cartographer villagers.
Used to locate ocean monuments (blue) or woodland mansions (brown).
The map shows the outline of land and where the location is; the map is filled as the player approaches the vicinity.
Spawn eggs:
 Evoker Spawn Egg
 Llama Spawn Egg
 Vex Spawn Egg
 Vindicator Spawn Egg
New mobs
 Llama
Spawns in extreme hills biomes.
Attacks by spitting when provoked by a player or mob.
Can be tamed similar to horses, but does not permit the usage of a saddle to be able to ride them freely.
When tamed, the player can equip a llama with a chest for storage and equip a carpet with a unique design per color.
Using a lead on a llama causes other nearby llamas to follow and form a caravan.
Can be bred using hay bales.
Drops leather when killed.
 Evoker
Found in woodland mansions.
Attacks any players and villagers nearby.
Summons fangs and vex to deal with the player.
When near a blue-dyed sheep in a 16-block radius, it converts their color to red.
Drops emeralds and a totem of undying when killed.
 Vex
Summoned by evokers.
Attacks any players and villagers nearby.
Are able to phase through blocks to attack their opponents.
 Vindicator
Found in woodland mansions.
Attacks any players and villagers nearby.
Vindicators named "Johnny" or have the Johnny byte tag enabled become aggressive to all but other illagers.
Primarily attacks using an iron axe.
Drops emeralds and rarely an iron axe when killed.
New villager profession:
 Cartographer
A white-robed villager (librarian) that can sell explorer maps.
New non-mob entities
 Evocation Fangs
Summoned by evokers.
Causes 6HP hearts of damage to players and mobs.
Does not harm any illagers unless it was spawned by the player.
New structures
 Woodland mansion
Found in roofed forests.
Consists of three floors that are procedurally-generated.
Evokers and vindicators can be found here.
New gameplay
 Adventure mode
Available using commands.
Certain functions, such as breaking blocks or building, are disabled.
Players can only interact with mobs and the environment.
 Enchanting
Frost Walker
A treasure enchantment that causes any nearby water blocks to turn into frosted ice that the player can traverse on.
Mending
Any experience collected instead goes into repairing the durability of the player's tool or armor.
The tool or armor repaired is selected at random.
Minecraft Marketplace
A new in-game store where players can buy skins, add-ons, texture packs, mashup packs, and worlds.
Purchases are made using Minecoins.
Requires an internet connection.
Off-hand slot
Can be used to hold arrows or totems of undying.
The type of arrow used in the offhand takes priority when using a bow.
Other additions
6 new achievements.


== Further revisions ==
1.1.1 and 1.1.2 were released to fix various bugs.
1.1.3 added fossils, as well as various blocks to the Nether.
1.1.4 and 1.1.5 added various skin packs to the Marketplace. 1.1.5 also saw the Marketplace extracted to its own library, so that updates to the Marketplace would no longer require version upgrades.
1.1.7 was released exclusively on iOS to add support for Internet Protocol version 6.


== Trailer ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==