The Ender Update is the name of the update for Pocket Edition, Windows 10 Edition, Gear VR Edition, Apple TV Edition, Fire TV Edition, and New Nintendo 3DS Edition that added the End dimension and the ender dragon. It marked the end of the alpha phase for Pocket Edition and the beta phase for Windows 10 Edition and making their release official, while also being the first release for Apple TV and Fire TV.
The update released as version 1.0.0 on December 19, 2016. For New Nintendo 3DS Edition, it was released as version 1.7.10 on September 19/20, 2018.
The official name for the update, the Ender Update, was revealed on November 11, 2016, in a blog post on the Mojang website.


== Notable features ==

New dimension
The End
A new dimension to serve as the game's ending.
Can only be accessed through the End portal, found in the stronghold.
Composed of a floating island made of only End stone, obsidian, and bedrock, and various surrounding outer islands composed of End stone and chorus plants.
It's possible for mobs and players to fall from the island and into the Void.
Endermen, shulkers, End cities and ships, elytra, and the ender dragon can be found here.
New blocks
 Chorus Plant &  Chorus Flower
Found in the outer islands of the End.
The chorus flower can also be planted to grow more chorus plant and chorus flowers.
When mined, the chorus plant drops chorus fruit.
Obtaining a chorus flower requires hitting it with a projectile, such as an arrow.
 Dragon Egg
A decorative block that can only spawn once upon defeating the ender dragon.
Using the item causes it to teleport away at a random location.
Can be obtained by letting it fall on a block with less than 1 height, such as a torch.
[verify] Dragon Head
Found on the bow of an End ship.
Can be worn on the player's head, creating a unique animation when walking or activated with a Redstone signal.
 End Gateway
Generates as part of the End gateway structure.
 End Portal
 End Stone Bricks
Found in End cities and ships.
Can also be crafted using four End stone.
 End Rod
Found in End cities and ships.
Can also be crafted using a blaze rod and a popped chorus fruit.
 Ender Chest
Crafted using an eye of ender surrounded by eight obsidian.
Can also be found in End cities.
Used to access an interconnected inventory across multiple dimensions.
Does not drop itself if broken without Silk Touch; only eight obsidian is dropped.
 Stained Glass &  Stained Glass Panes
Only available through third-party modifications.
Does not render its appropriate colors due to a rendering issue.
 Structure Block
Only available through third-party modifications.
Intended to be used to generate structures manually.
 Structure Void
Only available through third-party modifications.
Intended to be used by developers for structure development
New purpur blocks, which they can all be found in End cities and ships:
 Purpur Block
Crafted using four popped chorus fruit.
 Purpur Stairs
 Purpur Slab
 Purpur Pillar
New items
 Chorus Fruit
Obtained from mining a chorus plant.
Can be eaten at any time, even with full hunger.
Restores 4 () hunger and gives 2.4 hunger saturation.
Consuming a chorus fruit causes the player to teleport to a random location with 8 blocks on all axes.
Can be used to remove all fall damage.
 Popped Chorus Fruit
Obtained by smelting chorus fruit.
Used to craft purpur blocks.
 Dragon's Breath
Obtained by using a glass bottle on nearby purple particles shot out by the ender dragon.
Used to brew lingering potions.
 Ender Pearl
Obtained as drops from Endermen.
Can be used to teleport to where the pearl lands.
Can also be used to craft an eye of ender.
 Eye of Ender
Obtained by crafting one blaze powder with an ender pearl.
When used, it flies to the direction of where the nearest stronghold is.
Also can be used to activate the End portal.
 Elytra
Found on End ships.
When worn on the chestplate, it is used to glide similar to aerodynamics of a glider.
Negates fall damage when gliding down slowly and gradually.
Hitting a block causes damage.
Nose-diving into a block still causes fall damage.
Flight can be cancelled by jumping.
Wearing a cape overlays its texture onto the elytra.
 Lingering Potions
Brewed by using the corresponding splash potion with dragon's breath.
Acts similar to splash potions, but causes a lingering particle effect with its respective potion effect to lay on the ground.
Any mobs or players that walk through the particle are given that potion effect.
 Shulker Shell
Obtained as drops from shulkers.
Has no uses.
Spawn eggs:
 Endermite Spawn Egg
 Polar Bear Spawn Egg
 Shulker Spawn Egg
New mobs
 Endermite
Has a 5% chance of spawning whenever a player uses an ender pearl.
Behaves similarly to silverfish, although cannot infest stone-related blocks and Endermen are aggressive towards it.
 Ender Dragon
A large dragon boss found in the End.
Is healed by End crystals, that if being used when the player destroys it, causes considerable damage to the dragon.
Can swoop down and knock the player back considerably.
Also fires a purple projectile that causes a particle effect that damages players but can be picked up using a glass bottle to get dragon's breath
When killed, the exit portal activates, torches are placed, and a dragon egg spawns on the top of the exit portal.
It also drops 12XP,000 XP, the most out of any mob in the game.
It can be respawned by placing End crystals on all four sides, but has less XP compared to its first defeat and does not spawn a dragon egg after defeat.
 Polar Bear
Spawns in ice plains, ice mountains, and ice plains spikes as either an adult or a cub.
Becomes aggressive if hit or when the player approaches one while a cub is nearby.
Swims faster in water compared to the player.
Drops raw fish or raw salmon when killed.
 Shulker
Spawns in End cities and ships.
Upon close proximity to a player, the shulker fires a projectile that inflicts Levitation on impact.
Drops shulker shells when killed.
New non-mob entities
  End Crystal
Found on top of End pillars in the End.
Some End crystals are caged up using iron bars.
Can also be crafted using seven glass blocks, an eye of ender, and a ghast tear.
Heals the ender dragon.
Explodes if destroyed; also damages the ender dragon if it was being healed by the crystal.
After defeat, the ender dragon can be respawned again by using four crafted End crystals on each side on the exit portal. This also respawns the End crystals on each obsidian pillar.
New structures
 Chrous plant
 End city
Found on the outer islands of the End.
Composed of purpur blocks, End stone bricks, glass panes, and End rods.
Shulkers, and an ender chest can be found here.
 End gateway
Generates upon the ender dragon's defeat.
Can be used to teleport to and from the outer End islands.
 End ship
Sometimes generates near an End city in the End
Shulkers, the dragon head, a brewing stand with two potions of Healing II, and an elytra can be found here.
 Exit portal
Generates at the center of the End.
Is composed of only bedrock at first but generates an exit portal, torches, and a dragon egg when the ender dragon is defeated.
 Igloo
A structure found in ice plains and cold taigas.
Is a dwelling with a bed, crafting table, and furnace.
Sometimes spawns with an underground structure that houses a villager, a zombie villager, a brewing stand with a splash potion of Weakness, and a chest with a golden apple, serving as a tutorial for curing zombie villagers.
 Obsidian platform
The starting platform where players spawn in the End.
 Obsidian pillar
Generates in the End surrounding the exit portal, with a End crystal on the top.
Some contain iron bars which makes it hard to shoot a projectile at the End crystal.
New gameplay
New effect:
 Levitation
Occurs upon being hit by a shulker's projectile.
Causes players to gradually float up in the air.
Upon the effect's expiration, the player falls down, taking potentially lethal damage.
New soundtrack
In-game music from C418, from albums Minecraft - Volume Alpha and Minecraft - Volume Beta, were added. They collectively have to be separately downloaded from the Marketplace.
14 new ambient tracks were added.
"calm1.ogg" - "Minecraft"
"calm2.ogg" - "Clark"
"calm3.ogg" - "Sweden"
"hal1.ogg" - "Subwoofer Lullaby"
"hal2.ogg" - "Living Mice"
"hal3.ogg" - "Haggstrom"
"hal4.ogg" - "Danny"
"nuance1.ogg" - "Key"
"nuance2.ogg" - "Oxygene"
"piano1.ogg" - "Dry Hands"
"piano2.ogg" - "Wet Hands"
"piano3.ogg" - "Mice on Venus"
Six pieces of music that play while in Creative mode were added.
"creative1.ogg" - "Biome Fest"
"creative2.ogg" - "Blind Spots"
"creative3.ogg" - "Haunt Muskie"
"creative4.ogg" - "Aria Math"
"creative5.ogg" - "Dreiton"
"creative6.ogg" - "Taswell"
Four ambient tracks that play in the Nether were added.
"nether1.ogg" - "Concrete Halls"
"nether2.ogg" - "Dead Voxel"
"nether3.ogg" - "Warmth"
"nether4.ogg" - "Ballad of the Cats"
Four tracks that play on the main menu were added.
"menu1.ogg" - "Mutation"
"menu2.ogg" - "Moog City 2"
"menu3.ogg" - "Beginning 2"
"menu4.ogg" - "Floating Trees"
Other piece of music added include:
"boss.ogg"
Plays during the ender dragon fight.
"end.ogg" - "The End"
Plays as the ambient track of the End
"credits.ogg" - "Alpha"
Plays during the credits of the game.
Other additions
7 new achievements (added Xbox Live achievements to Windows 10 Mobile version of Pocket Edition)
2 new commands: /locate and /connect, although /locate only searches for strongholds.
Notable changes
The Overworld now has a height limit of 256 blocks.
This change does not apply to the Nether or the End.


== Further revisions ==
1.0.1 was released exclusively on iOS to fix several bugs.
1.0.2 fixed even more bugs.
1.0.3 added the Candy texture pack, support for the Dutch language, and fixed several bugs from 1.0.2.
1.0.4 added villager trading and the Strangers Skin Pack.
1.0.5 added command blocks, new commands, and the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers Skin pack.
1.0.6, 1.0.7, 1.0.8, and 1.0.9 added various skin packs and mashup packs.


== Trailer ==


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Combat Update (Java Edition 1.9)


== References ==


== Navigation ==