The Exploration Update is the name for Java Edition 1.11, a major update released on November 14, 2016. The official name for the update, the Exploration Update, was revealed on September 24, 2016, during the Opening Ceremony at MINECON 2016. During the "Casual Chat with Jens" panel at MINECON, he suggested that the name "Expedition Update" was more suitable to the theme of the update compared to the "Exploration Update".
The main features of the update were announced on the second day of MINECON 2016, during "The Minecraft 1.11 Change Log" on September 25, 2016. However, snapshots for the update initially began around two months prior to the reveal of the main features, with the features being added in a snapshot just a few days after MINECON. 
Mojang released the first (and only) pre-release for the Exploration Update on November 8, 2016.


== Additions ==

New blocks
 Observer
Crafted using six cobblestone, two redstone dusts, and a Nether quartz.
Used to give a redstone signal when it detects a block update.
 Shulker Box
Crafted using a chest with two shulker shells enclosed on top and at the bottom.
Allows the player to access storage on the go by keeping any inventory it has when broken.
Can be dyed to any of the available colors.
New items
 Shulker Shell
Obtained as drops from shulkers.
Used to craft a shulker box.
 Totem of Undying
Obtained as drops from evokers.
Holding it in the main hand or offhand resurrects the player upon being killed.
Absorption and Regeneration is granted upon activation.
Cannot prevent deaths when falling through the void.
 Explorer Map
Obtained by trading with cartographer villagers.
Used to locate ocean monuments (blue) or woodland mansions (brown).
The map shows the outline of land and where the location is and it is filled in as the player approaches the vicinity.
Spawn eggs:
 Donkey Spawn Egg
 Elder Guardian Spawn Egg
 Evoker Spawn Egg
 Husk Spawn Egg
 Llama Spawn Egg
 Mule Spawn Egg
 Skeleton Horse Spawn Egg
 Stray Spawn Egg
 Vex Spawn Egg
 Vindicator Spawn Egg
 Wither Skeleton Spawn Egg
 Zombie Horse Spawn Egg
New mobs
 Llama
Spawns in extreme hills biomes.
Attacks when provoked by a player or mob.
Can be tamed similar to horses, but does not permit the usage of a saddle to be able to ride them freely.
Using a lead on a llama causes other nearby llamas to follow and form a caravan.
Can be bred using hay bales.
Drops leather when killed.
 Evoker
Found in woodland mansions.
Attacks any players and villagers nearby.
Summons fangs and vex to deal with the player.
When near a blue-dyed sheep in a 16-block radius, it converts their color into red.
Drops emeralds and a totem of undying when killed.
 Vex
Summoned by evokers.
Attacks any players and villagers nearby.
Are able to phase through blocks to attack their opponents.
 Vindicator
Found in woodland mansions.
Attacks any players and villagers nearby.
Vindicators named "Johnny" or have the Johnny byte tag enabled become aggressive to all but other illagers.
Primarily attacks using an iron axe that can disable shields.
Drops emeralds and rarely an iron axe when killed.
2 new villager professions:
 Cartographer
A white-robed villager (librarian) that can sell explorer maps.
 Nitwit
Cannot trade with the player at all.
New non-mob entities
 Evocation Fangs
Summoned by evokers.
Causes 6HP hearts of damage to players and mobs.
Does not harm any illagers unless it was spawned by the player.
New structures
 Woodland mansion
Found in roofed forests.
Consists of three floors that are procedurally-generated.
Evokers and vindicators can be found here.
New gameplay
 Enchanting
Curse of Vanishing
Items and armor pieces enchanted with Curse of Vanishing disappear upon the player using them getting killed.
Curse of Binding
Armor pieces enchanted with Curse of Binding cause the player to be unable to take off the armor piece until its durability is gone or the player dies.
It's also possible to enchant items such as mob heads or pumpkins in which the only way to remove them is by dying.
Other additions
The command /locate


== Further revisions ==
1.11.1 added iron nuggets and the Sweeping Edge enchantment, among numerous changes and bug fixes.
Firework rockets can now cause damage to entities that are within their explosion radius.
Firework rockets can now boost players while flying with elytra.
1.11.2 was released soon thereafter to fix a crash involving chicken jockeys.


== Trailer ==


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==