The Friendly Update is the name of the update for Pocket Edition, Windows 10 Edition, and Gear VR Edition as alpha version v0.15.0. It released on June 10, 2016 for Android and June 13, 2016 across all other platforms.
The official name for the update, the Friendly Update, was revealed on June 3, 2016 in a blog post on the Mojang website.


== Notable features ==

New blocks
 Observer
Crafted using six cobblestone, two redstone dusts, and a nether quartz.
Used to give a redstone signal when it detects a block update.
 Piston &  Sticky Piston
Pistons are crafted using four cobblestones, three wood planks, an iron ingot, and a redstone dust.
Sticky pistons are crafted using a slimeball and a piston.
Both can be used to push or pull blocks.
This includes block entities like chests.
New items
 Carrot on a Stick
Crafted using a fishing rod and a carrot.
Used to control the movement of pigs when riding them with a saddle.
 Fire Charge
Crafted using a blaze powder, a coal or charcoal, and a gunpowder.
Lights things on fire when used.
When ejected from a dispenser, it fires the projectile out.
 Horse Armor
Comes in leather, iron, gold, and diamond.
Leather horse armor can be crafted using seven leather in an H shape.
The other horse armors can be found in dungeons, nether fortresses, desert temples, and jungle temples.
Used to give protection to horses.
Leather horse armor can be dyed in numerous colors.
Cannot be used on donkeys, mules, or skeleton horses.
 Lead
Crafted using four string and a slimeball.
Used to leash mobs around.
Can be attached to a fence.
 Name Tag
Found in dungeons.
Used to rename mobs by renaming the item with an anvil and then using it on a mob.
Named mobs do not despawn.
 Raw Mutton and its  cooked variant
Obtained as drops from sheep.
Raw mutton restores 2 () hunger and gives 1.2 hunger saturation.
Cooked mutton restores 6 () hunger and gives 9.6 hunger saturation.
 Tipped Arrow
Obtained by using an arrow on a cauldron filled with a corresponding potion effect.
When fired at an entity, it inflicts the corresponding status effect.
Spawn eggs:
 Donkey Spawn Egg
 Horse Spawn Egg
 Husk Spawn Egg
 Mule Spawn Egg
 Skeleton Horse Spawn Egg
 Stray Spawn Egg
 Wither Skeleton Spawn Egg
 Zombie Horse Spawn Egg
New mobs
 Horses
Rideable mobs found in plains in small groups.
Has to be tamed by repeatedly riding the horse, subsequently getting thrown off, until the horse shows heart particles.
Can be tamed easier by feeding the horse bread, sugar, hay bales, wheat, apples, golden apples, or golden carrots.
Upon taming, a saddle is required to ride the horse.
Players can also put on horse armor for protection.
Stats (health, speed, and jump height) and color vary between horses.
Can be bred using golden apples or golden carrots.
Drops leather when killed.
 Donkey
Rideable mobs found in plains in small groups.
Has similar functionality to the horse, but has the ability to put on a chest for storage access.
Can be bred using golden apples or golden carrots.
Drops leather when killed.
 Mule
Spawns upon the breeding of a horse and a donkey.
Has similar functionality to the donkey.
Cannot breed with any other horses, donkeys, and mules.
Drops leather when killed.
 Skeleton Horse
An undead variant of the horse that spawns in as a skeleton horse trap.
When closely approached, it splits into three other skeleton horses with a helmet-wielding skeleton riding them.
Are always tamed upon being spawned.
Cannot bred to produce baby offsprings.
Drops bones when killed.
 Zombie Horse
Only available through spawn eggs.
Is considered an undead mob.
Cannot be bred to produce baby offsprings.
Drops rotten flesh when killed.
 Husk
Spawns in desert biomes.
Behaves similarly to a zombie but inflicts Hunger to attacked players.
 Stray
Spawns in ice plains, ice mountains, and ice plains spikes.
Behaves similarly to a skeleton but shoots tipped arrows of Slowness instead.
New structures
 Jungle temple
An aboveground structure found in jungle biomes.
Has various tripwire traps safeguarding loot.
Also has a puzzle involving pistons that provide access to a room with a chest containing loot.
New village types:
Taiga villages, cold taiga villages, & ice plains villages
Uses spruce wood instead of oak.
Zombie villages
Spawns rarely with moss stone and cobwebs
Its only inhabitants are zombie villagers.
Other additions
Realms
A subscription-based service allowing players to host a server with help by Mojang
Requires logging into an Xbox Live account.
Online multiplayer via Xbox Live.
Notable changes
Pigs can now be ridden with a saddle and controlled using a carrot on a stick.
Villages in savanna biomes now use acacia wood.
Trapdoors no longer require supporting blocks.
Shears now lose durability when breaking any block.
For performance, online multiplayer now uses less bandwidth.


== Further revisions ==
Alpha v0.15.1, Alpha v0.15.2, Alpha v0.15.3, and Alpha v0.15.4 fixed numerous bugs and crashes.
Alpha v0.15.6 added some features specific for virtual reality, and also fixed some bugs and crashes from Alpha v0.15.4.
Alpha v0.15.7, Alpha v0.15.8, Alpha v0.15.9, and Alpha v0.15.10 added various texture packs and skin packs.


== Trailer ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==