The Frostburn Update is the name for Java Edition 1.10, a major update released on June 8, 2016. It added some new features such as skeleton/zombie variants in snowy biomes and deserts respectively, polar bears, structure blocks for saving/loading structures in worlds, and an auto-jump feature. The official name for the update, the Frostburn Update, was revealed on June 8, 2016, in a blog post on the Mojang website, the same day the update was released.
Being the smallest major update, development began shortly after 1.9, the Combat Update, was released, and snapshots began the week after 1.9.3 and 1.9.4 were released, in mid-May. Only 3 snapshots and 2 pre-releases were released for 1.10, between May 18, 2016, and June 8, 2016. Mojang released the first pre-release on June 2, 2016, and the second on June 7, one day before the update was released.


== Notable features ==

New blocks

 Bone Block
Found underground as part of fossils.
Can also be crafted using nine bone meal.
Acts as a storage block for bone meal.
 Magma Block
Found in the Nether in y-levels between 27 and 36.
Can also be crafted using four magma creams.
Any players or mobs on the block takes damage every second unless they are sneaking, using Frost Walker, or having the effects of Fire Resistance.
Water blocks above the magma block disappear.
 Nether Wart Block
Crafted using nine Nether warts.
Cannot be crafted back into Nether wart.
 Red Nether Bricks
Crafted using two Nether warts and two Nether bricks in a checkerboard pattern.
 Structure Void
Only available through commands.
Intended to be used by developers for structure development in lieu of barrier blocks.
New items

Spawn egg:
 Polar Bear Spawn Egg
New mobs

 Husk
Spawns in desert biomes.
Behaves similar to a zombie but inflicts Hunger to attacked players.
 Polar Bear
Spawns in ice plains, ice mountains, and ice plains spikes as either an adult or a cub.
Becomes aggressive if hit or when the player approaches one while a cub is nearby.
Swims faster in water compared to the player.
Drops raw fish or salmon when killed.
 Stray
Spawns in ice plains, ice mountains, and ice plains spikes.
Behaves similar to a skeleton but shoots tipped arrows of Slowness instead.
New structures

 Fossil
Generates underground in deserts and swamplands.
Composed of several bone blocks and coal ore.
Other additions
The command /teleport.
Auto jumping


== Trivia ==
The time span between the releases of 16w20a and 1.10-pre1 was only 2 weeks, the smallest time between, unusual based on Mojang's history, as 1.8 and 1.9 both took around a year or so to develop.


== Further revisions ==
1.10.1 fixed "some of the most annoying reported bugs."
1.10.2 was released soon thereafter to fix a crash from 1.10.1.


== References ==


== Navigation ==