Grid Runners is a free Marketplace map developed by Noxcrew for MINECON Earth 2018, consisting of 18 minigames designed to be used in multiplayer.


== Summary ==
Upon starting the map, the player appears in an info room, giving various pieces of vital information. Facing them are ten signs, instructing the player on the rules and how to begin a round. Behind the player is a button that begins the map proper, but beside it are two more walls, promoting Noxcrew's Twitter, YouTube, Facebook, and Instagram accounts. Once ready to play the game, the player drops down a tube and onto a slime block covered in carpets at the center of the map, as a narrator welcomes the player into the lobby.
The lobby is split into four main sections, each being a course where players can be on either the yellow team or blue team. While a game is in session, any non-participating players can go down a flight of stairs and watch the progress from extensive viewing booths next to the games. Upon starting, only the iron course is open, but a handful of other venues are available. Approaching the iron course, the player can see a promotion for Grid Runners Pro, a sequel to the map with new features, and on the right is a diagonal staircase leading up to a costume shop, where the player can select costumes and wear uniforms. Similarly, sandwiched between the diamond and emerald courses is a car shop, where players can ride cars similar to horses.
Around the gold course, the player can find two paths of sorts. To the left is a staircase leading to a food court, with acacia stairs for chairs and a stand full of cake. To the right of the course is a diving board, which the player can jump off into a tube into a lower area of the lobby, where their fall is broken by water. Dropping down to this area reveals it to be a pond, with a wooden bridge behind a quartz bridge, which leads to several long staircases leading upward and downward. Traveling down, the player finds a small patch of grass with artificial trees, before reaching an artificial lake with tropical fish swimming, an oak plank dock, a T. Rex fossil made out of sandstone and what appears to be a generator. If the player wishes to leave, there are several fan structures, identifiable by yellow carpets, which propels the player upward. Alternatively, the player can advance up the stairway, emerging from doors between the courses.


=== Iron ===
Dig Down!

Players are dropped into a small town area, and given a stone shovel to dig through several coarse dirt and gravel blocks with. Eventually, they reach a small pool lined with torches and gray terracotta. Swimming over a little leads them to a button on a block of iron, labeled "Press Me!" Pressing it ends the minigame, but the team must climb a ladder into a room with a red bed and exit two iron doors to reach the actual exit.
Shoot 'em Up!

Players walk into a badlands town location, underneath a wooden awning and before a saloon marked by banners, walled off with fences. Armed with a bow enchanted with infinity and five arrows, players must shoot eleven minecarts. Six are on two artificial cacti made of green terracotta, one is on red sandstone, one is on oak logs, and three are in a unique black colored wood structure in a horseshoe shape. Once all of them are shot, the teams advance through the build into the next room.
Copy the Painting!

Players enter a room with a painting, which they must recreate. Walking in, they are given shears with unbreaking III, and can select stacks of 10 wool by stepping on pressure plates. The painting is randomized, but the color scheme is preset, consisting of blue, yellow, brown, lime, and light blue.
Once players complete Copy the Painting, they enter into a flat strip of blocks they must sprint across to the finish line.


=== Gold ===
Climb the Cliff!

Players drop into a badlands biome, and have to go through a parkour course to reach the exit. To start, they must position themselves on red terracotta and climb a ladder onto a piston pushing a plank block, which activates via a wooden pressure plate. From there the team must jump across slabs suspended by slabs, and climb another ladder before reaching a tight platform of pink terracotta and sneak around cobblestone walls, before sprinting off onto another ladder. Descending down a hall on the top of the cliff leads the player to a block of gold with a button, labeled "Press Me!" which opens the nearby exit.
Find the Exit!

Players arrive in an artificial cityscape, where they must find an exit. First, they must enter a cyan building, and walk down to a bottom floor into a door behind the stairs. Walking clockwise, they walk past iron bars, and then into a reddish house through a door that leads to the inside of a cage with a ladder. The ladder reaches to the button, which activates the exit.
Defeat the Beasts!

Players enter above a fortified jungle biome. Given an iron sword with unbreaking III, a bow with unbreaking III and infinity, and five arrows, they must defeat several silverfish and skeletons. The area is two floors tall, the first being the top of a temple. Walking down stairs, players cross by three jungle trees and can enter into the temple, marked with blocks of emerald and polished andesite. Killing all the enemies opens the exit on the top of the temple.
Deposit the Gold!

Players enter a cave, tasked with crafting and depositing a block of gold into a hopper. Using an iron pickaxe with unbreaking III, they need to mine several gold ore, smelt them in a furnace, and craft them into a block. Gold and coal ore can be found throughout a long, descending cave. Once sufficient ore has been mined, they can be smelted in several different furnaces. Once the player has nine gold ingots, they can climb to a lush surface area adorned with acacia trees to access a crafting table, then return to the cave to a hopper lined with obsidian.
Upon beating Deposit the Gold, the teams emerge in a platforming section where they must climb a ladder and jump across large blocks to reach the finish line.


=== Emerald ===
Defeat the Beasts!

Similar to in the Gold course, players must defeat several monsters with an iron sword, bow, and five arrows. This time, however, the enemies are spiders, and the arena is a cave full of cobwebs.
Catch the Fish!

Players emerge into an area with several pools of water, with cod swimming inside. With a bucket, they must use the bucket on the cod. Upon collecting eight bucket of cod, the team can advance.
Light the Lamps!

Similar to the Gold course, players are dropped into a cityscape. This time, they must activate several redstone lamps, the closest being reachable through a ladder close to the entrance. The second can be reached by walking over a line of fences, while the third l be inside an orange building, behind the red building, and reached through quartz slabs. The fourth is inside a red building and requires parkour over red stained glass upward. The fifth is close to the exit, and can be reached through either wooden platforms or jumping from the red building. The sixth can be reached by climbing a smooth stone slab spiral staircase by the fourth, above the first. 
Find the Flowers!

Entering into a flower forest, players receive shears with unbreaking III and be tasked with collecting a red tulip, dandelion, and oxeye daisy. Making this difficult is the presence of several zombies, who provoke and attack the player endlessly until the time limit is reached. The tulip can be found outside of a cave, in front of a green carpet in the shadow of a tree, the daisy being not too far above, while the dandelion is right at the entrance by an andesite rocks.
Bake a Cake!

Players are dropped into a cityscape, this time with an iron hoe and tasked with crafting a cake. To get a bucket, they must enter a store building with a device that drops buckets, marked with an item frame and sea lantern, which they can use on a nearby cow in a cart behind the building. Sugar cane can be found right next to the cow, both growing and in a chest. Wheat grows in a greenhouse above the bucket store, which can be accessed by climbing a stairway above the sugar cane farm and jumping across an awning. Eggs can be found similarly, in a dropper on top of a building that can be reached by  jumping across a fan-like build made out of rails. A crafting table can be found in the back, in front of a hopper. Once the cake is "baked" and placed in the hopper, players can advance.
The final challenge of the course is to run over two streams of water to the finish line. If they fall into the water, they can climb up with ladders and try the jump again.


=== Diamond ===
Shoot the Targets!

A combination of Defeat the Beasts and Shoot 'em Up, players drop into a plains ravine and have to shoot several minecart targets. However, they are given only an iron sword with unbreaking III, and have to craft a bow by killing spiders instead. Below, crowded by gravel, players can find a chest filled with flint, and across from that another chest with sticks. Upon crafting a bow (automatically enchanted with unbreaking III), the player can quickly slay the targets and move onto a suddenly appearing bridge. However, if they run out of supplies there is a block of diamond with a button that can restock supplies.
Knock em Down!

In this minigame, teams must knock several zombies into a pit, using either slime blocks or snowballs. To get snowballs, they can stand on a pressure plate and gradually build up several stacks. To use slime blocks, there is a row of pressure plates in front of a window, which activate pistons and knock the zombies.
Mine to the Exit!

Players are given an iron pickaxe, and have to locate an exit amongst several dozen stone blocks. Upon finding the secret spot, they must press a button to open the exit. However, potentially helping matters is that the window into the opponents' arena (visible in every minigame) shows the location of the exit.
Defeat the Beasts!

In this final iteration, players are given three tridents enchanted with loyalty III and unbreaking III, and have to fight three guardians in a miniature ocean monument. The first is present from the outset, and likely be the first guardian killed or attacked. The second is inside the structure itself, in a room lined with quartz pillars and dark prismarine. The third is in a narrow passageway, identifiable through two more pillars and an iron bar window.
Climb to the Exit!

Players must parkour through several obstacles, beginning with four rings made out of oak and jungle planks. Jumping onto a bush, the player must then platform across four plank blocks onto a wider platform with a spruce pressure plate, lowering a ladder. Climbing up, players can advance through a smaller, tube-like series of rings before reaching the exit.
Copy the Sculpture

Similar to Copy the Painting, players must recreate a shape, this time a three-dimensional one with a diamond pickaxe with unbreaking III. The blocks available are red wool, light blue wool, black wool, white wool, cyan stained glass, and sea lanterns. As with Copy the Painting, the sculptures are randomized.
The final race to the exit comes in the form of several rapids, lined with stained glass, similar to the Emerald course but more numerous and thinner. As well, the ladders are on both sides of the blockade.


== Customization ==


=== Skins ===


=== Outfits ===


=== Cars ===


== Soundtrack ==

Grid Runners is the official soundtrack for the map, containing two tracks from the map by Isaac Wilkins, which play during gameplay and the lobby. 


=== Track listing ===


== Quotes ==


== Videos ==


== History ==


== Trivia ==
As the map predates Caves & Cliffs, gold ore drops as blocks without silk touch. Similarly, without moss blocks or moss carpets, green terracotta and carpets are used to represent moss.
Initially, the map was conceived as having randomized minigames. To do this, the developers made a list of "every interesting mechanic" in the game, however as they continued it became clear they were too intricate for a purely random experience.
Among the ideas scrapped from the map were "ender golf," redstone wiring, piston mazes, and a minigame involving sneaking around endermen.
Another scrapped feature was a token system, with players earning a currency from every mob slain during gameplay that could be used to unlock and upgrade gear that would provide buffs during gameplay. However, there were concerns that inventory management would over-complicate gameplay, and so they were replaced with the costume quests.
For a time, Grid Runners was distributed through the Target department store chain.


== Gallery ==


=== Official artwork ===


=== Promotional images ===


=== Screenshots ===


== References ==


== See also ==
Grid Runners Pro, a sequel to the map
Batman, another map created by Noxcrew
Frozen, another map created by Noxcrew
Frozen: Anna & Elsa Skin Pack, a skin pack released by Noxcrew
Kung-Fu Panda, another map created by Noxcrew
Terra Swoop Force, another minigame map by Noxcrew


== Navigation ==