Guy is a character in the novels published by Max Brooks, first appearing in Minecraft: The Island. Suffering from amnesia, he washed ashore on a mysterious island within the Minecraft universe, and had to adapt to the internal logic to survive. After ridding the island of any hostile mobs, he decided to leave, and stumbled upon a mountain fortress owned by a second human, Summer.


== Appearance ==
Though not explicitly said, it is heavily implied at several points that he takes on the appearance of Steve, in particular Summer (who resembles Alex herself) singling out his beard. From the perspective of Guy, he cant do anything that an actual Minecraft player wouldnt, so he never gets a full look at himself. However, he describes his body as painted on, lacking the ability to move his fingers or position his arms in ways that arent absolutely necessary for the games mechanics. Most notably, instead of having a conventional inventory, he possesses a physical backpack and utility belt.


== Personality ==
Guy is a survivalist, devoid of any memory of his origins or the world surrounding him. Initially, he starts off somewhat paranoid and bewildered, struggling to adapt to his situation and the rules that bind it. However, even early on he has a distinct sense of humor, often giving mobs and sights nicknames. A zombie, for instance, he calls "Mr. Dead-Head", a skeleton "Boneyboy," a silverfish a "crabupine," chickens a "chick-duck," and a large hill is consistently referred to as "Disappointment Hill.
Over the course of his first two stories, he also becomes noticeably lonely and defensive. During the events of The Island, he befriends a number of animals; a cow he dubs Moo, a black sheep and white sheep named Flint and Cloud, and their gray offspring Rainy. He even gives his swords the names Protector and Flash. By the time he meets Summer, hes become very attached to animals, declaring himself a vegetarian and seeing them as friends. As such, he jumps at the opportunity to meet a second human and quickly befriends her.
Throughout his adventures, him and Summer also notably recount scarce details of their origins. In particular, Guy instinctively recognizes King Graham, and recalls using a computer at multiple points. Computers didnt just help my life, they were my life. When he eats a steak, he recalls eating another that was pink itself, and nothing past that. In Chapter 10 (Nothing Clears the Mind Like Sleep), he remembers his eyes burning, hand cramping, and sitting too much; a sleepless night.


== Quotes ==


== Appearances ==
Minecraft: The Island (first appearance)
Can a Mojang Employee Survive the Night in a REAL Forest? (cameo)
Ten Things You Probably Didn't Know About Minecraft
Making Mobs
Minecraft: The Mountain
Minecraft: The Mountain tie-in map (mentioned)
Minecraft: The Village
Welcome to League of Literacy


== Trivia ==
Due to being implied to be an incarnation of Steve, the initial face of the game, and later being given the nondescript name of Guy, it can be inferred that hes intended to represent the average player. The Island being a metaphor for learning the ropes, whereas the Mountain could be inspired by multiplayer.


== Gallery ==


== Navigation ==