The Halloween Update is the name for Java Edition Alpha v1.2.0, a major update released on October 30, 2010. The Nether was the most prominent feature of the update.


== Notable features ==

New dimension
The Nether
A new hell-like dimension that can be accessed through a Nether portal.
Can be used to traverse large distances on the Overworld, as 1 block in the Nether equals to 8 blocks in the overworld.
New blocks
 Glowstone
Obtained by crafting nine glowstone dust.
Can be used as a light source.
 Jack o'Lantern
Obtained by crafting a pumpkin with a torch.
 Nether Portal Block
 Netherrack
Found abundantly in the Nether.
 Pumpkin (now Carved Pumpkin)
Found in patches across the Overworld.
Can be worn by the player.
 Soul Sand
Found in the Nether.
Has high friction, slows down the player's speed when walked over.
New items
 Clock
Used to tell the time in the Overworld.
Cannot function in the Nether.
 Glowstone Dust
Obtained from mining glowstone blocks.
Can be used to craft glowstone.
 Raw Fish (now Raw Cod) and its  cooked variant
Obtained from using a fishing rod on an area of water.
New mobs
 Ghast
Flying mob in the Nether.
When in target of the player, it shoots a fireball towards them.
Drops gunpowder when killed.
 Zombie Pigman (now Zombified Piglin)
Neutral mobs in the Nether.
Are passive at first, but become hostile forever if the player hits one and angers any nearby zombie pigman.
Drops cooked porkchops when killed.
New world generation
Proper biomes were added:
Desert
Generates with sand and cacti.
Forest
The Nether
Plains
Generates with few oak trees, dandelions, and roses.
Rainforest
Seasonal Forest
Shrubland
Swampland
Taiga
Generates with taiga trees, snow, and ice.
Tundra
Generates with few oak trees, snow, and ice.
New structures
 Glowstone blob
Found on the Nether ceiling.
 Nether portal
New gameplay
Fishing
At the time, fishing was only used to obtain raw fish.
New soundtrack
Six new ambient music tracks from C418 were added:
"hal1.ogg" - "Subwoofer Lullaby"
"hal2.ogg" - "Living Mice"
"hal3.ogg" - "Haggstrom"
"hal4.ogg" - "Danny"
"nuance1.ogg" - "Key"
"nuance2.ogg" - "Oxygène"
"piano2.ogg" ("Wet Hands") received a slightly different mix.
"piano3.ogg" ("Mice on Venus") received an extension.
Notable changes
Added the ability to hide the player's HUD and viewmodel with F1
Darker grass block and leaves
Sunrise creates a red glow
New creeper sounds


== History ==
The update was announced on October 4, 2010 on Notch's blog. A new type of block was announced on October 8, and on October 11 Notch posted a statement on his Twitter saying: "I just made the most unfair mob ever even more unfair. You will hate the Ghast." On October 10, 2010, Notch posted the first image of the Nether on his blog.
On October 19, it was announced that there were six new block types (of which five had unique abilities), one new monster, a new dimension, and a couple of bug fixes.
On October 22, PC Gamer posted an article giving more details about the new update. The article states that Ghasts "are flying cuboid jellyfish that could shoot fireballs at you, blowing chunks out of the world around you and setting it on fire." It also states that the Nether portals to go to and from the Hell dimension is made from obsidian.
On October 25, Notch tweeted that he was working on a second, more harmless mob. This was later revealed to be the zombie pigman.
Torches were planned to become temporary light sources with the new permanent light source being lanterns, but the update didn't make it in time. Lanterns, however, were added in the Java snapshot 18w46a and Bedrock 1.9.0 versions.


== Trivia ==
The "poster" was located at minecraft.net/boo, which no longer exists. An archive of it is available at archive.org
The poster said that pumpkins were "useless", while now, they provide a shield against provoking endermen.
The poster said "Portal in, move 10 meters, portal out, and you're hundreds of meters away." Since portals move the player by a factor of 8, 10 meters away in the Nether is 80 meters away in the Overworld, not hundreds.
Burnt out torches were not added in this update, but they were added in Minecraft 2.0 April Fools update.


== Gallery ==


=== Videos ===


== References ==


== See also ==
Adventure Update
Pretty Scary Update
Nether Update


== Navigation ==