Helen Zbihlyj, also known as HelenAngel, is a former community manager for Minecraft at Mojang Studios, the first person in the company with that title. She is now the Narrative Writer & Director of Community at ReWrite Media, Jigarbov Productions, & Syclone Studios.


== Personal life ==
Helen graduated from Germantown High School. There she was heavily involved in the award-winning theatre & television program.
She graduated from the University of Memphis with a BA in psychology.
Her son, Nicholas, was born in November of 2000. She married Sneeza, the creator of TF2 Outpost, in June 2016. They divorced in 2021. In October 2024, she married Wes Pesetti, a developer on Bedrock at Mojang.


== Professional life ==
In the Minecraft community, Helen started as an active player and an occasional Minecraft Wiki contributor.
She joined Xbox Game Studios in November 2013 as Community Manager for the Windows 8 games portfolio, including titles such as Microsoft Solitaire Collection, Microsoft Bingo, Disney Fairies: Hidden Treasures, and Hexic. She assisted with community management of Minecraft: Xbox 360 Edition and later community management of the rest of the Minecraft: Console Edition platforms.
She officially joined Mojang Studios full-time in July 2015 to provide community management for the Minecraft franchise.
She is no longer part of Mojang starting August 27, 2020. She continues to work with the Minecraft community through her roles as Narrative Writer & Director of Community at ReWrite Media, Jigarbov Productions, & Syclone Studios, three Minecraft Marketplace Partner studios.
As a narrative/dialogue writer, she worked on the following Minecraft Education Edition maps (all are free content):

LatinExplorers 1: A Hispanic Heritage Journey
LatinExplorers 2: A Hispanic Heritage Journey
Artemis: Return to the Moon
BuildAbility
Minecraft: Extreme Heat Series
James Webb Space Telescope Challenge
Build Your Joy: Inside Out 2
Fantastic Fairgrounds
Cyber Fundamentals 2: The Interceptors
Cyber Fundamentals 3: Cloud Champions
Minecraft Hour of Code 2023: Generation AI
Minecraft Hour of Code 2024: The Show Must Go On
Data Explorers
Lessons in Good Trouble (2025 re-release)
Corny Code Caper
As a narrative/dialogue writer, she worked on the following Minecraft Bedrock content (notes whether the content is free or paid in the Minecraft Marketplace):

Friend Maker by Jigarbov Productions (paid)
Computers Add-On by Jigarbov Productions (paid)
Marketplace Creator Tycoon by Jigarbov Productions (free)
Jurassic World Adventures by Syclone Studios (paid)
Minecraft Transformers DLC by Syclone Studios (paid)
Fantastic Fairgrounds by Minecraft (free)
Heatwave Survival by Pathway Studios (free)
Days Survived Counter Add-On by Syclone Studios (free)
Data Explorers by Pathway Studios (free)
LatinExplorers by Minecraft (free)
LatinExplorers 2 by Minecraft (free)
Artemis: Rocket Build by Minecraft (free)
As a copyeditor, she worked on the following Minecraft Bedrock content by Jigarbov Productions (notes whether the content is free or paid in the Minecraft Marketplace):

Minecraft x Tetris Add-On (paid)
Tetris DLC (paid)
Poisonous Potato Add-On (free)
ALL THE WOOL Add-On (free)
DetectOre Add-On (paid)
Papercraft Mob Stickers Add-On (paid)
Computers Add-On (paid)
Coloring Artist (paid)
Friend Maker (paid)
Marketplace Creator Tycoon (free)
Land of Mutants (paid)
Robot Battle Arena (paid)
Simburbia (free)
Battle Mutants Add-On (paid)
As a copyeditor, she worked on the following Minecraft Bedrock content:

Gauntlets Boss Expansion by Syclone Studios (paid)
Mob Dragons by Syclone Studios (paid)


== Trivia ==
Helen worked with Corey Clemans previously when they were both on the Xbox Game Studios Community Team.


== References ==


== Navigation ==