Inspiration Island is a Marketplace map that is designed around creative mode, gifting the player a vast island designed to inspire them to create and innovate.


== Summary ==

After selecting "Redstone Mansion" in the world selection screen, the player spawns in a chamber lined with dark prismarine, chiseled quartz, end rods, and sea lanterns, with an on-screen instruction telling the player to walk and a nearby sign telling players to look at signs. Walking beyond the sign sign, players discover a collection of miniature biomes, which can be filled with mobs by using pressure plates, buttons, levers, and tripwires. Further instructions lie in the center, including a brick wall players are encouraged to break, a spot of glazed terracotta where players are encouraged to place, a wall of lava players are encouraged to walk through. On the other side are a collection of small walls that encourage the player to fly over, leading to another wall high up meant to be broken, revealing Inspiration Island.

Dropping down onto purple wool, players follow an arrow to a sign welcoming them to the island, and then a map of the map. Surrounding this road are several buildings. On the right side are a Farmer's Market, Sports Shop, Bank, and on the left a Terracotta Art Gallery, Jewelry Store, and Bakery. The Farmer's Market is an open storefront with a red and white awning, and several melons, pumpkins, sponges, and red mushroom blocks on shelves. In a nearby pen are a pig, chicken, leatherworker and librarian. The Sports Shop contains a fireworks show, which can be activated by placing four blocks of redstone, while the bank holds many double chests full of gold ingots and emeralds locked behind a piston door, unlocked by two levers. The Terracotta Art Gallery is merely a collection of glazed terracotta displayed on walls, with a cleric behind a desk. The Jewelry Store is similar to the Sports Shop, but with the blocks going on the floor and triggering dispensers to shoot diamonds, emeralds, ender pearls and nether stars. The Bakery holds several cakes, with a sign lamenting that players don't have hunger in creative mode.
Beyond that is a small grove, surrounded by redstone lamps encased in stained glass, containing demonstrations of a garden and home, with accompanying chests containing supplies to complete them. On the lamps are signs, telling the player to locate the "five secrets" of the island to light them up, but also warn that "[the player] might want to lower [their] music as well...". Surrounding the entrances to the areas are several more miniature building opportunities. Between Mirror and Terra Form is a pond, meant to be filled with squids, while between Story Time and Mirror is a spruce fence meant to be filled with chickens hatched from thrown eggs.


=== Mirror ===

Set inside of a badlands biome, Mirror is a simple building activity, where players are tasked with completing a build by creating a mirror of it. There are two options, one hard and one easy. The easy option is to the right, marked by the redstone lamps. The statue is that of an agent, made of light gray, brown, pink, red, gray, white, and black concrete, as well as light gray terracotta. The hard option is a birch hourglass, floating in midair, made of birch planks, glass, light blue concrete powder, blocks of quartz, smooth stone slabs, spruce slabs, and birch, spruce, and dark oak stairs. Below it are instructions on how to place stairs.
The secret lever can be found easily, simply below the logo, which itself is behind a large lake with a formation in the center. Next to the hard build is a path into Terra Form, through a cave.


=== Pixel Art Map ===

Entering through a gate consisting of a large diamond pickaxe, water bottle, flint, raw porkchop, blaze powder, and dandelion, Pixel Map Art teaches players on map art. As seen from above, there are three templates, in the form of a cat and dog, a human face, and a detailed landscape with a visible house and clouds. The path into the area begins as several brick blocks, transitioning into concrete patterned like bricks before ending at instructions. There are three challenges, each increasing in difficulty. The easiest is to color in a cat and dog picture, while the medium is to redesign a face build into a self portrait. The hardest is to simply build whatever the player wants, inside a large empty space. 
To the left are several chests containing colored blocks, right of that a chest with filled maps of the area, and then an armor stand holding a map in front of an item frame to help keep track of progress. Behind the supplies is a large tower shaped like a pencil, which can be climbed. At the top is an observatory with extra maps, and a sign instructing players to take a picture of the view. A second pencil is not far away, and between both is an entrance to Story Time, in the shape of gate resembling a library with a giant book logo. To the right are a build of a palette made of stripped birch wood, with shulker boxes hidden amongst the paint, containing further supplies for building and signs explaining how they function. 
Surrounding the area are several tall, magenta buildings and a landscape of a mountain, with a visible cabin, pirate ship, and cave. Approaching the cave makes it apparent it's actually an enterable hole, and inside the player discovers the landscape is seemingly intended to be cardboard. Following the redstone lamp lines leads to the secret lever, inside of the area's logo.


=== Red Stone ===

Red Stone is found by entering into an expansive cave, made of blocks of iron, redstone lamps, pistons, slime blocks, and redstone ores. The other side of the cave leads to a collection of examples on redstone mechanics, such as levers, buttons, pressure plates, and minecarts. Pulling a lever leads to a series of redstone repeaters through an erupting redstone volcano, past several other tutorials. One is a large contraption using sticky pistons, placing down repeaters open a glass door into a large, vacant room made of white concrete. Referred to as the "Secret Base Building Area," players are encouraged to build a secret base, or a hidden door into Pixel Map Art. 
Returning to the path, the player ends up behind a redstone lamp sign. There is a large assortment of redstone blocks, with a chest of potential replacement parts. In the back of the area is another iron cave, illuminated by redstone torches, eventually leading to a pit of lava. The secret lever can be found by following the purple wires, walking past a minecart rail that wraps around the whole area. Climbing up the mountain leads to a checkerboard, with a chest of redstone blocks and an encouragement to build something in a 10x10 space. A similar, 8x3 space is found somewhat off from the path, and at the end is the secret lever. If the player doesn't want to fly the way there, they can take the minecart, which stops upon reaching the summit. A player who wants to continue the track is taken up the mountain, into the mountain, into the volcano past a chest, above the volcano, behind the logo, through the cave, and eventually back at the start of the track.


=== Story Time ===

Story Time is set inside a collection of gigantic bookshelves, with the player entering down a massive flight of stairs, the floor being an enormous cyan carpet, and a giant table housing a build of a knight fighting a dragon in the center. Approaching the table, players can find a gigantic book, the pages having two separate builds themed around racing, the left an awards podium and the right a car. In front of the book is a chest holding many blocks and items, including a book called The Big Race credited to one Gernie Rubhar, which gives instructions on a building challenge.

The Big Race
Flying above to the table reveal a second challenge, with an accompanying book; Dragon's Defeat by Medea Ville.

Dragon's Defeat
The secret lever can be found on the walls of the area, above the grounds but below the sign, lighting up a wire of lights that fall under the carpet. The right wall of the area contains a multicolored wool staircase up to to Pixel Map Art. To the right is a somewhat obscure area, represented by a burnt hole in a book. Entering it reveals two more build challenges. To the right side is a gray alien with a test tube, which has the story Alien Experiment by Gene Omorff, and to the left is an ocean ruin and stone brick pedestal, which has the story Ancient Artifact by Savannah Stone.

Alien Experiment
Ancient Artifact
At the opposite side of the room is a mineshaft leading into Mirror, with a chest of rails and minecart adjacent items, encouraging players to make a track around the island.


=== Terra Form ===

Walking under packed ice and stone stalactites, players find Terra Form to be a vacant landscape. A sign on purpur pillars instructs the player to grow plants with bone meal, an immediate chest containing eight and numerous plants, from saplings to flowers. Following the stained glass infrastructure, players are led to a podzol region with a similar chest, containing buckets. A set of signs teach the player how to use buckets on water, with a hole marked by magenta glazed terracotta to teach infinite water by placing on corners. Flying upward, players can also find a small river beginning in what appears to be an intersecting shattered savanna.
Returning to the front is a beach, with a chest intended for the "Sandcastle Building Area," including blocks like sand, sandstone, acacia, and banners. Nearby are two more chests, one on a frozen ocean microbiome with ice and snow for building igloos, and another in the waters, surrounded by sea pickles and intended for building a coral reef. The secret lever can be found easily, by simply following the lightline up to the logo, perched on an iceberg.


=== Bonus area ===

Spoiler


== Quotes ==


== History ==


== Gallery ==


=== Official artwork ===


=== Promotional images ===


=== Screenshots ===


== External links ==
Everything we announced at Minecon Earth 2018 – Minecraft.net on September 29, 2018


== Navigation ==