1.16, the release of the Nether Update, is a major update to Java Edition announced at MINECON Live 2019 and released on June 23, 2020. This update overhauls the Nether by adding four new biomes, four new mobs (the piglin, hoglin, zoglin, and strider), and a multitude of new blocks, including many variants of blackstone as well as the respawn anchor used to set the player's spawnpoint in the Nether. It also adds a new netherite tier of equipment, obtained through ancient debris found rarely throughout the Nether.
1.16 was reuploaded around 6 hours after release to attempt to fix an issue with the Realms menu which prevented clients from viewing and connecting to Realms (MC-191138). The changes were only to the client, and the server jar files are functionally identical. This hotfix was unsuccessful, and 1.16.1 was released the next day.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Ancient debris

Can be found throughout the Nether at any altitude, though it is much more common at lower altitudes (Y-levels 8–22).
Can be refined into a netherite scrap by smelting in a furnace or blast furnace.
Same blast resistance as obsidian, but is movable with pistons.
Inventory item floats on lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
A diamond or netherite pickaxe is required to mine it.
Always spawns covered by lava and/or blocks on all sides.
 Basalt

Makes up basalt pillars.
Generates in soul sand valleys and basalt deltas.
Can be placed directionally, similarly to logs.
Has a polished variant, obtained through the stonecutter or crafted from in a 2×2 grid, similar to other polished blocks.
Generates whenever lava touches blue ice while flowing over soul soil.

 Blackstone

Generates in basalt deltas.
Has a regular, polished, chiseled polished, polished brick and cracked polished brick variant.
Has regular, polished and polished brick slab, stair, and wall variants.
Has polished button and pressure plate variants.
Work like their stone counterparts.
Can be used as an alternative in place of cobblestone for crafting furnaces and stone tools.
 Block of netherite

Can be crafted with 9 netherite ingots.
Can be used as a beacon base.
Item entity floats on lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
Same blast resistance as obsidian, but is movable with pistons.

 Chain

Generates in bastion remnants.
Crafted using 2 iron nuggets and 1 iron ingot in a vertical line formation.

 Chiseled Nether bricks

New variant of Nether bricks.
Crafted from 2 Nether brick slabs.

 Cracked Nether bricks

New variant of Nether bricks.
Obtained by smelting Nether bricks in a furnace.
 Crimson and warped fungi

Generate in crimson and warped forests.
Can be placed on dirt, coarse dirt, farmland, podzol, nylium, soul soil, and grass blocks, and can also be placed in flower pots.
Bone meal can be used on Nether fungi to grow it into the respective huge fungi when placed on the same type of nylium.
Unlike mushrooms, fungi do not spread over time.
Can be used in composters.
 Crimson and warped nylium

Resemble grass blocks.
Can be spread to netherrack by using bone meal on a netherrack block next to a nylium block.
Can be right-clicked with bone meal to generate crimson roots, warped roots, Nether sprouts, and Nether fungi.
 Crimson and warped planks

Wooden planks that do not burn.
Crafted from the respective stem.
Can be used to craft respective slabs, stairs, fences, fence gates, pressure plates, signs, buttons, doors, and trapdoors.
Cannot be used as furnace fuel, since they do not burn.

 Crimson and warped roots

Foliage that generates in both crimson and warped forest biomes, as well as soul sand valleys.
Can be placed into flower pots.
Can be used in composters.
 Crimson and warped stems

Blocks that comprise the trunks of huge fungi.
Have animated textures.
Have a top texture similar to regular log blocks.
Can be placed directionally, similarly to logs.
Does not burn.
Have respective stripped variants.
 Crying obsidian

 Used to craft respawn anchors.
Can be found in ruined portals and bastion remnant loot chests.
Can be obtained by bartering with piglins.
Has a light level of 10.
Emits purple particles, resembling tears.
Has the same blast resistance as obsidian.
Programmer Art texture is the old texture from 2011.
 Gilded blackstone

A variant of gold ore found in bastion remnants.
Variant of blackstone.
It has a chance to drop 2–5 golden nuggets when mined with a pickaxe.
If does not drop gold nuggets, then it drops itself.
As with the drop chance of flint from gravel, the Fortune enchantment does not increase the amount dropped, but increases the chance that gold nuggets drop.
Pickaxe without Fortune – 10% chance to drop 2–5 gold nuggets.
Pickaxe with Fortune I – 14.29% (1⁄7) chance to drop 2–5 gold nuggets.
Pickaxe with Fortune II – 25% chance to drop 2–5 gold nuggets.
Pickaxe with Fortune III – 100% chance to drop 2–5 gold nuggets.
Silk Touch – always drops the block itself.
 Hyphae

A variant of stems with the bark on all 6 sides.
Also has a stripped variant.

 Lodestone

Crafted with a netherite ingot and chiseled stone bricks.
Using a compass on one creates a lodestone compass, which points to that lodestone block.
Its functionality applies in all dimensions.

 Nether gold ore

A variant of gold ore found in the Nether.
Drops 2–6 gold nuggets when mined.
This is affected by Fortune the same way other ores are, for a maximum possible drop of 24 golden nuggets with Fortune III.
Nether gold ore, obtained with Silk Touch, can still be smelted into a single gold ingot.
Can be mined with any pickaxe.
Also drops experience orbs.
 Nether sprouts

Foliage that generates in warped forests.
Resembles grass from the Overworld.
Requires shears to be obtained.
Can be used in composters.
 Quartz bricks

Crafted from four blocks of quartz.
Used as a decorative block.

 Respawn anchor

Crafted with 6 crying obsidian and 3 glowstone.
Can be used to set spawn points in the Nether, using glowstone as charges.
A maximum of 4 charges can be set at once, and one charge is depleted with each respawn.
Redstone comparators can track how much it is charged.
Emits a slight amount of light, which gets stronger for each charge added.
Using it in the End or the Overworld causes it to explode and set fire to surrounding blocks similar to beds in the Nether or the End.
Can be charged using a dispenser.
The portal animation on the top texture is inverted from the Nether portal texture.
Has an advancement called Not Quite "Nine" Lives. To complete, a respawn anchor must be charged to its maximum (four).

 Shroomlight

Emits a light level of 15, similarly to glowstone.
Can be mined with any tool, but hoes are the most effective.
Generate as a part of huge fungi.
Can be used in composters.
 Soul campfire

Soul variant of the normal campfire.
Has a blue flame instead of orange.
Gives off a light level of 10, with the normal campfire giving off 15.
Hay bales can increase smoke particle height.
Deals double damage compared to the normal campfire.
Crafted with soul sand or soul soil instead of coal.
Piglins are repelled by soul campfires.

 Soul fire

Blue variant of fire.
Fire lit on soul soil or soul sand turns into soul fire regardless of dimension.
Burns forever, similarly to netherrack and magma blocks.
Generates naturally in the soul sand valley biome in the Nether.
Deals damage at a rate of 2HP per second as opposed to the 1HP per second of regular fire.
Does not extinguish when in the rain.
 Soul lantern

Gives off a light level of 10.
Crafted similarly to a normal lantern, using a soul torch instead of a normal torch.
Has an animated texture, just like its Overworld counterpart.

 Soul torch

Gives off a light level of 10.
Crafted similarly to a normal torch, with soul soil or soul sand being placed under the stick.
Gives off a lower light level than a normal torch.

 Soul soil

Generates in the soul sand valley, alongside conventional soul sand.
Fire lit on soul soil is blue, and is called soul fire.
The player does not sink and is not slowed when walking in soul soil.
Considered a full block, unlike soul sand.
Can be used to summon the wither.
Works with the newly-added Soul Speed enchantment.
 Target

Redstone component that can be activated by shooting projectiles into it.
Signal is stronger depending on how close the projectile is to the center of the block. The signal strength goes up to 15.
Can be crafted using a hay bale and 4 redstone dust.
Can be mined with any tool, but hoes are the most effective.
Does not need a redstone comparator to send a signal strength.

 Twisting vines

Generates in the warped forest.
Is placed on top of a block and grows upward, like kelp.
Can be climbed, like normal vines.
Growth can be accelerated with bone meal.
Can be used in composters.
 Warped wart block

A variation of the Nether wart block, but cannot be crafted.
Generates as a part of huge warped fungi. Sometimes generates in the ground replacing the warped nylium in the warped forest biome.
Can be used in composters.
 Weeping vines

Generates in the crimson forest.
Is placed on the bottom of a block and grows downward.
Can be climbed, like other vines.
Growth can be accelerated with bone meal.
Can be used in composters.


=== Items ===
 Lodestone compass

Created by right-clicking a lodestone with a compass.
Points toward that lodestone.
Keeps them stacked.
Entering another dimension other than the one containing the right-clicked lodestone causes the compass to spin uncontrollably, similar to regular compasses in the Nether or the End.
 Music discs

Added the "Pigstep" music disc, composed by Lena Raine.
Can be found only in bastion remnants.
Has a red disc color instead of black.
When played in a jukebox, a redstone comparator output produces a signal strength of 13.
 Netherite armor

Upgraded using a smithing table with a netherite ingot and the respective diamond item.
Does not burn in lava or fire, as a dropped item or when worn (its durability does not decrease when the player takes damage from lava) (players equipping netherite armor, however, can still take burning damage).
Floats in lava.
Tougher than diamond armor.
Has higher durability and enchantability than diamond, but not higher enchantability than gold.
 Netherite axe, hoe, pickaxe, shovel, and sword

Upgraded using a smithing table with a netherite ingot and the respective diamond item.
Does not burn in lava or fire.
Floats in lava.
Have higher item durability, mining level, breaking multiplier, and enchantability than diamond, but not higher than gold.
All items, except the hoe, deal 1 more damage than their diamond counterparts.
 Netherite ingot

Created with 4 gold ingots and 4 netherite scraps.
Can be used to upgrade diamond tools and armor in a smithing table.
Floats in lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
 Netherite scrap

Created by smelting ancient debris in a furnace or blast furnace.
Used to create netherite ingots.
Floats in lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
 Snout banner pattern

New pattern for banners, the Snout.
Used in the loom to apply the Snout pattern to the banner.
Can be found in bastion remnants.
Spawn eggs

 Hoglin Spawn Egg
 Piglin Spawn Egg
 Strider Spawn Egg
 Zoglin Spawn Egg
 Warped fungus on a stick

Crafted with a fishing rod and warped fungus.
Can be used to control striders in the same way as a carrot on a stick controls pigs.
Right-clicking while riding a strider temporarily boosts its speed, similarly to riding pigs, taking 1 damage whenever the strider's speed is boosted.
Has 100 durability as opposed to the carrot on a stick's durability of 25.
Mending and Unbreaking can be applied using an anvil.


=== Mobs ===
 Hoglins

Have 40HP × 20 health.
Spawn in crimson forests.
Are a hostile mob.
Drop raw porkchop and leather.
Have an adult and baby variant.
Can be bred with crimson fungi.
Are hunted by adult piglins.
Baby hoglins are not hunted and baby piglins do not hunt hoglins.
Avoid placed warped fungi, Nether portals, and respawn anchors.
Convert into zoglins when in the Overworld or the End.
Have an IsImmuneToZombification data value that prevents them from zombifying in the Overworld.
 Piglins

Have 16HP × 8 health.
Spawn in crimson forests and Nether wastes biomes.
Randomly spawns with golden sword or crossbow.
Adults are hostile; babies are passive.
Do not attack players wearing at least one piece of golden armor.
Adult piglins turn aggressive when a player is mining "gold related" blocks (such as blocks of gold, Nether gold ore, gilded blackstone, etc.) or opening/breaking chests, even if they are wearing gold armor.
The player can barter with them by right-clicking with gold ingots or dropping them on the ground, which makes them drop at least one item or block in return.
Occasionally attack adult hoglins.
Up to 3 baby piglins can ride on the back of baby hoglins.
Adults attack wither skeletons on sight.
Avoids soul fire, soul torches, soul lanterns, soul campfires, zombified piglins, and zoglins.
Can spawn with golden armor.
Convert to a zombified piglin when in the Overworld or the End.
Have an IsImmuneToZombification data value that prevents them from zombifying in the Overworld.
 Striders

Have 20HP × 10 health.
A passive mob that spawns in the Nether on lava oceans.
Drops strings.
Can be saddled and controlled with a warped fungus on a stick.
Moves in and out of lava.
Shivers and turns blueish-purple when out of lava.
Moves significantly slower out of lava.
Is damaged by water and rain.
Has a baby variant.
Can be bred using warped fungi.
Adults can spawn with baby striders riding them.
Can spawn with zombified piglins riding them.
If they spawn with a zombified piglin, they also have a saddle equipped.
 Zoglins

Have 40HP × 20 health.
A zombified variant of the hoglin.
Created when a hoglin is brought into the Overworld.
Unlike hoglins, they cannot be bred or fed, and they do not flee from warped fungi.
Attack most mobs on sight, except for creepers, ghasts, and other zoglins.
Drops rotten flesh.
Takes more damage with Smite, as it is considered an undead mob.


=== World generation ===
Biomes

 Basalt deltas
A volcanic biome in the Nether. Filled with pillars of basalt and large areas of blackstone. The air is filled with a light gray ash-like particle.
Ghasts, magma cubes, and striders can spawn here.
 Crimson forests
A dense forest with huge crimson fungi. Nether wart blocks and Nether fungi are found in patches on the ground and weeping vines are found under the trees and Nether wart “stalactites”. Fog effects are similar to the Nether wastes biome.
Zombified piglins, piglins, and hoglins can spawn here.
 Soul sand valleys
A vast grotto composed of uncovered Nether fossils, soul sand, soul soil, large pillars made of basalt, blue fog, and soul fire.
Skeletons, ghasts, and endermen can spawn here.
 Warped forests
A blue color variation of the crimson forest, but with somewhat different vegetation and blue particles and fog effects.
Endermen and striders can spawn here.
Structures

 Basalt pillars
Floor to ceiling pillars of basalt that generate in soul sand valleys.
 Bastion remnants
Generate in all Nether biomes, except basalt deltas.
Four types of structures generate; Bridge, Hoglin Stable, Housing Units, and Treasure Room.
Are the only source of the "Pigstep" music disc.
Piglins and hoglins spawn here.
Monster spawners that spawn magma cubes can be found in bastion remnants.
Piglins have more gold armor parts if spawn here.
 Huge crimson fungi and huge warped fungi
New structures resembling trees found in crimson and warped forests, respectively. They resemble trees in the Overworld.
Made of crimson and warped stem blocks as well as Nether wart blocks and warped wart blocks. Resembles leaves in Overworld.
Can be grown from their respective Nether fungi.
 Nether fossils
New fossil structures have been added for the soul sand valley.
These fossils are different from the Overworld fossils and generate random pieces of basalt instead of coal ore.
 Ruined portals
Shattered remains of Nether portals.
Generate in both the Nether and the Overworld.
Can be buried underground or underwater.
A loot chest can be found beside the portal.


=== Command format ===
/attribute

Used to get, set, or modify attributes.
Possible syntax: Parameters:
attribute <target> <attribute> get [<scale>] – get total value of attribute
attribute <target> <attribute> base set <value> – sets base value
attribute <target> <attribute> base get [<scale>] – get base value
attribute <target> <attribute> modifier add <uuid> <name> <value> add multiply multiply_base – adds modifier (fails if modifier is already present)
attribute <target> <attribute> modifier remove <uuid> – removes modifier
attribute <target> <attribute> modifier value get <uuid> [<scale>] – get value of modifier
target – single entity (note: only players, armor stands and mobs have attributes)
attribute – name of attribute (like minecraft:generic.max_health)
name – string (in optional quotes) describing human-readable name of modifier
value – floating point value (note: Certain attributes have limits on final value, so the change might not be noticeable)
/locatebiome

Used to locate specific biomes.
/gamerule forgiveDeadPlayers

Makes angered neutral mobs stop being angry when the targeted player dies nearby.
Enabled by default.
/gamerule universalAnger

Makes angered neutral mobs attack any nearby player, not just the player that angered them. Works best if forgiveDeadPlayers is disabled.
Disabled by default.


=== Gameplay ===
Advancements

All of these advancements are located in the "Nether" tab, except "Bullseye", which is located in the "Adventure" tab.
"Bullseye", "Cover Me in Debris", and "Hot Tourist Destinations" are challenge advancements, while the others are "normal" advancements.
Added a smokey property to the location trigger which checks if the location is closely above a campfire.
Added thrown_item_picked_up_by_entity advancement trigger.
item matches the thrown item which was picked up.
entity matches the entity which picked up the item.
Added player_generates_container_loot advancement trigger.
loot_table matches the resource location of the generated loot table.
Added item_used_on_block advancement trigger.
location matches the location at the center of the block the item was used on.
item matches the item used on the block.
Added player_interacted_with_entity advancement trigger.
item matches the item which was in the player's hand during interaction.
entity matches the entity which was interacted with.
Bartering

Added new bartering mechanic, through which the player can trade items with piglins.
Bartering is done by right-clicking piglins with gold ingots or dropping them on the ground, which makes the piglin drop at least one item or block in return, with different blocks and items having varying rarities.
Death messages

Added a new death message for being killed by another player's firework using a crossbow.
"[player] went off with a bang due to a firework fired from [item] by [player/mob]"
Enchanting

Added the Soul Speed enchantment.
A new treasure enchantment obtainable only via bartering with piglins or in chest loot found in bastion remnants.
Available only on boots.
Allows faster walking on soul sand and soul soil.
There is a 4% chance that the durability of the boots goes down for each soul sand or soul soil block stepped on.
Cannot be obtained from enchanting tables, fishing, or trading.
Loot tables

Added a loot table for the Nether portal block.
Fire now also has a loot table
Materials

Added seven new material colors:
 #bd3031 CRIMSON_NYLIUM
 #943f61 CRIMSON_STEM
 #5c191d CRIMSON_HYPHAE
 #167e86 WARPED_NYLIUM
 #3a8e8c WARPED_STEM
 #562c3e WARPED_HYPHAE
 #14b485 WARPED_WART_BLOCK
Recipe book

Added recipe book unlocks for smithing tables.
Sounds

New unique block sounds for most of the newly added blocks have been added.​[more information needed]
Some blocks already in the game such as netherrack, bone blocks, and Nether bricks sounds have been changed.
Statistics

Added a statistic for distance by strider.


=== General ===
Accessibility

Chat line spacing can now be adjusted.
A chat delay can be set between 0 (default) and 6 seconds.
Ambience

Added new ambient sounds to the Nether.
Different sounds play in each Nether biome.
Added 3 new soundtracks to the Nether, composed by Lena Raine: "Rubedo", "Chrysopoeia" and "So Below".
"Rubedo" plays in the Nether wastes biome.
"Chrysopoeia" plays in the crimson forest biome.
"So Below" plays in the soul sand valley and basalt deltas biomes.
client.json arguments

disableChat
Disables the receiving and sending of online chat.
disableMultiplayer
Disables the Multiplayer and Minecraft Realms buttons.
Customized worlds

Added experimental support for new custom worlds.
The "Edit World" menu now has an option to export world settings to a JSON file.
Previously exported world settings can be imported during world creation.
Many new parameters are exposed but marked as experimental, meaning they can be used but may later be removed.

Data packs

Added a new "Data Packs" button on the "Create World" screen.
Allows the player to select data packs to be enabled in the world.
Supports drag-and-drop.
Dimensions and custom dimension types can now be added and changed by data packs.
Smithing recipes can now be added and changed by data packs.
entity_properties

Now has vehicle, and targetedEntity properties, which match the vehicle or the entity targeted by a mob.
Game mode toggling

Added quick game mode switching functionality using the F3 debug key.
Hold F3 and press F4 to open the menu. Pressing F4 or using the mouse cycles the game mode. Release F3 to apply.
The last game mode is remembered and is the first selected option, so it is possible to quickly toggle between two game modes with a single press of F3 + F4.
F3 + N now toggles between Spectator mode and the previous game of the player.
Graphics

Added new "Fabulous!"  graphics option
Uses per-pixel blending layers for some transparent elements.
Options

Added an "Entity Distance" scale option ranging from 50% to 500%.
Sets the distance at which mobs render into the frame.
Particles

Added ash, crimson_spore, soul_fire_flame, and warped_spore particles.
Added three particles for crying obsidian: dripping_obsidian_tear, falling_obsidian_tear, and landing_obsidian_tear.
Added a new particle type: soul.
Used when walking on soul sand or soul soil when wearing boots with the new Soul Speed enchantment.
Settings

Added functionality to import/export world settings.
Shaders

Added assets\minecraft\shaders\post\transparency.json.
Splash

Added new splashes:
This parrot is no more! It has ceased to be!
Honey, I grew the bees!
Find your claw!
Everybody do the Leif!
<3 Max & 99 & Ducky!
Bushy eyebrows!
Edit is a name!
From free range developers!
Music by Lena Raine!
Aww man!
#minecraftfarms
And my pickaxe!
Envision! Create! Share!
Fabulous graphics!
Also try Minecraft Dungeons!
Vanilla!
May contain traces of citrus!
Zoglin!?
Sound events

Added a new sound event for foxes teleporting after eating a chorus fruit.
Subtitles

Added a subtitle for traveling through a Nether portal, "Portal noise fades".
Added a subtitle for activating a Nether portal, "Portal noise intensifies".
Added a subtitle for cat purring, "Cat purrs".
Added a subtitle for donkey eating, "Donkey eats".
Added a subtitle for fox teleporting, "Fox teleports".
Added subtitles for mules neighing and eating; "Mule neighs" and "Mule eats", respectively.
Added subtitles for parrots imitating hoglins, piglins, and zoglins; "Parrot growls", "Parrot snorts", and "Parrot growls", respectively.
Added subtitles for zombies attacking and breaking wooden doors; "Door shakes" and "Door breaks", respectively.
Added subtitles for using cartography tables, looms, and stonecutters; "Map drawn", "Loom used", and "Stonecutter used", respectively.
Several of these subtitles do not show up in game, but are specified in sounds.json.
Tags

Added block tag beacon_base_blocks.
Contains block of diamond, block of emerald, block of gold, block of iron, and block of netherite.
Controls what blocks can be used to build a beacon base.
Added item tag beacon_payment_items.
Contains diamond, emerald, gold ingot, iron ingot, and netherite ingot.
Controls what items can be used as payment in a beacon's GUI.
Added block tag campfires.
Contains campfires and soul campfires.
Bees, parrots, and turtles view blocks in this tag as dealing fire damage and pathfind accordingly.
Campfires use this tag to determine if they are lit or not.
Flint and steel & fire charges use this tag to determine if they can light campfires.
Added block tag climbable.
Includes ladders, scaffolding, twisting vines, vines, and weeping vines.
Used in mob pathfinding and to determine what blocks the player can climb.
Added item tag creeper_drop_music_discs.
Contains all music discs except "Pigstep".
Used to determine what music discs creepers can drop.
Added block and item tags crimson_stems.
Contains crimson stem, stripped crimson stem, crimson hyphae and stripped crimson hyphae.
Added block tag fence_gates.
Contains all 8 fence gate types.
Added block tag fire.
Contains fire and soul fire.
Used in defining various fire-related behaviors, such as mob pathfinding and splash water extinguishing.
Added item tag furnace_materials.
Contains blackstone and cobblestone.
Items in this tag can be used to craft furnaces and unlock the recipe in the recipe book.
Added block and item tag gold_ores.
Contains gold ore and Nether gold ore.
Many recipes use this tag.
Added block tag guarded_by_piglins.
Contains container blocks such as (barrels, chests, ender chests, the shulker_boxes block tag, and trapped chests), as well as gilded blackstone, gold blocks (blocks of gold, and the gold_ores block tag).
Piglins become hostile toward a player that destroys a block in this tag.
Added block tag hoglin_repellents.
Contains Nether portals, respawn anchors, and warped fungus.
Hoglins avoid blocks in this tag.
Added entity tag impact_projectiles.
Includes the arrows tag, dragon fireballs, eggs, fireballs, small fireballs, snowballs, tridents, and wither skulls.
Used to determine what entities break chorus fruit when hit.
Added block tag infiniburn_end.
Contains the #infiniburn_overworld block tag as well as bedrock.
Fire burns infinitely on blocks in this tag in the End.
Added block tag infiniburn_nether.
Contains the #infiniburn_overworld block tag.
Fire burns infinitely on blocks in this tag in the Nether.
Added block tag infiniburn_overworld.
Contains netherrack and magma blocks.
Fire burns infinitely on blocks in this tag in the Overworld.
Added block and item tag logs_that_burn.
Contains the dark_oak_logs, oak_logs, acacia_logs, birch_logs, jungle_logs, and spruce_logs block and item tags, respectively.
Added block and item tag non_flammable_wood.
Contains crimson and warped stems, hyphae, planks, and other woodblocks, as well as stripped variants where applicable.
Items in the item tag cannot be used as fuel in a furnace.
Added block tag nylium.
Contains crimson nylium and warped nylium.
Added item tag piglin_loved.
Contains gold ingots, gold tools, gold armor, golden apples, enchanted golden apples, golden horse armor, golden carrots, blocks of gold, the gold_ores item tag, gilded blackstone, light weighted pressure plates, bells, glistering melon slices, and clocks.
Piglins "love" items in this tag, meaning they actively seek them out. They also view players holding an item in this tag as holding a "loved" item.
Used in the "Oh Shiny" advancement.
Added block and item tag piglin_repellents.
Contains soul campfires, soul fire, soul lanterns, and soul torches.
Piglins avoid, and don't attempt to pick up, blocks and items in this tag.
Added block tag pressure_plates
Contains light and heavy weighted pressure plates, as well as the #stone_pressure_plates and #wooden_pressure_plates block tags.
Added block tag prevent_mob_spawning_inside.
Contains the #rails block tag.
Mobs cannot spawn in blocks in this tag.
Added block and item tag soul_fire_base_blocks.
Contains soul sand and soul soil.
Determines what blocks can support soul fire.
Items in this tag can be used to craft soul campfires and soul torches and unlock the recipes in the recipe book.
Added block tag soul_speed_blocks.
Contains soul sand and soul soil.
The Soul Speed enchantment uses this tag to test for which blocks increase speed.
Added block tag stone_pressure_plates
Contains stone and polished blackstone pressure plates.
Added item tag stone_tool_materials.
Contains cobblestone and blackstone.
Items in this tag can be used to craft stone tools and unlock the recipes in the recipe book.
Added block tag strider_warm_blocks.
Contains lava.
Unless a strider is in a block in this tag, it turns purple and shiver.
Added block tag unstable_bottom_center.
Contains the #fence_gates block tag.
Blocks in this tag cannot support lanterns or bells on their bottom side even if they would otherwise be able to.
Added block tag wall_post_override.
Contains banners, pressure plates, redstone torches, #signs, soul torches, tripwire, and torches.
Controls what non-solid blocks can transform walls into their pillared block state.​[more information needed]
Added block and item tags warped_stems.
Contains stripped warped hyphae, stripped warped stem, warped hyphae and warped stem.
Added block tag wart_blocks.
Contains Nether wart block and warped wart block.
Added block tag wither_summon_base_blocks.
Contains soul sand and soul soil.
Controls what blocks can be used to build a wither.
Text

Added text which was missing for two death messages and were displaying raw translation strings.
World creation

Difficulty and game rules can now be changed from the "Create World" screen.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Bamboo saplings

Renamed to "Bamboo Shoot".
Beacons

Netherite blocks can be used as the base of a beacon.
Netherite ingots can be used to select powers from a beacon.
Bells

Now rings when hit by any type of projectile.
Now follow the same placement rules as lanterns when being placed on the undersides of blocks. As a result they can now be hung from the bottom of the following blocks:
Anvils (all stages)
Brewing stands
Chains
Chests
Ender chests
End rods (facing up or down)
Fences (all types)
Flower pots (including potted objects)
Glass panes (including stained)
Grindstones (ceiling attached)
Hoppers (downward facing)
Iron bars
Mob heads
Pistons (sideways facing extended)
Trapped chests
Walls (all types)
Bone blocks

Generate as part of Nether fossils in soul sand valleys.
Now have their own sound, instead of using the default stone sound.
Campfires

Can now be crafted using crimson and warped stems.
Now ignites when hit by any burning projectile.
Now drop food being cooked when put out with a shovel or water bottle.
Composter

Now allows for Nether fungi, Nether sprouts, Nether wart, Nether wart blocks, crimson roots, warped roots, twisting vines, warped wart blocks, weeping vines, and shroomlights to be composted.
Dispensers

Can now saddle pigs, striders, and tamed horses, donkeys, and mules.
Can now put horse armor on tamed horses.
Can now put carpets on tamed llamas.
Can now put chests on tamed llamas, donkeys, and mules.
Can now shear mooshrooms and snow golems.
Fire

Now has a proper hitbox (1⁄16 blocks).
Cannot be put out by swords or tridents in Creative mode, akin to other blocks, and can be modified via the debug stick.
Now has loot tables.
Flower pots

Has a bottom texture when empty.
Furnaces

Can now be crafted with blackstone.
Breaking a furnace now gives the experience for the smelted things inside.
Gravel and soul sand

Generate in the new soul sand valley biome.
Jigsaw blocks

Can have one of 12 orientations.
Added new property Joint type to describe if attached piece can be rotated (rollable) or not (aligned).
NBT field target_pool has been renamed to pool.
attachement_type has been split into name (on parent block) and target (on child block).
Added a locked texture .
Added a button in the GUI that generates a jigsaw structure starting from the jigsaw block, using a given generation depth.
Added a new "Keep Jigsaws" option that controls whether jigsaw blocks in the resulting structure after using "Generate" remain jigsaw blocks or are replaced by their "Turns Into" block.
Defaults to "ON".
Lava

Now pushes entities.
Now has a proper hitbox, making flowing lava blocks not full blocks anymore.
Visibility under lava is now slightly better when under the effect of Fire Resistance.
Nether portal block

Now has an associated loot table.
Netherrack

Using bone meal on netherrack adjacent to nylium converts the netherrack into nylium.
If two nylium blocks of different types are present, it chooses the type at random based on how many blocks of each type are around it.
Nether wart blocks

Generate as a part of huge crimson fungi. Sometimes generates in the ground replacing the crimson nylium in the crimson forest biome.
Texture changed from  to .
Changed the texture to match the texture in Bedrock Edition.
Can now be used in composters.
Observers

Now allow the placing of ladders and tripwire hooks.
The back texture while powered on has been changed.
Pistons and sticky pistons

Hardness has been increased to 1.5.
Pickaxes are now more effective on pistons.
Pistons can now support non-solid blocks on its top face without them popping off when the piston retracts (torches, levers, buttons, etc.).
Potted cactus

Top face now uses the top texture of cactus, rather than the side texture.
Now no longer contains dirt.
Purpur pillars

Changed the top texture to match the texture in Bedrock Edition.
Redstone blocks

Now allow the placing of ladders and tripwire hooks.
Redstone dust

Now has a bottom texture.
A single redstone wire is now represented as a cross.
Right-clicking an isolated redstone toggles it between a cross and a dot.
A dot of redstone does not power surrounding blocks, and a cross does.
Redstone which is connected to anything is not toggleable.
Redstone provides power to blocks on sides it shows a visual connection to, and not do so on those sides without a visual connection.
A wire on top of a block, which is redirected from below, now powers the sides it is redirected to.
Wires that redirect upward to wires on non-conductive blocks used to be redirected only visually; now this redirection applies to their behavior as well.
A wire that is redirected to go over a block now always provides power to the block. This is most noticeable when the wire has signal strength 1.
Redstone dust's hitbox now better adjusts to its shape.
Now visually connects when traveling up soul sand, 8-layer snow stacks and the back of upside-down stairs.
Particles are now generated across the entire area of the redstone wire; previously they appeared only at the center.
This now causes the particles to appear at the incorrect positions when millions of blocks away from the spawn point, due to precision loss (see Java Edition distance effects).
Signs

Changed the capitalization of "Edit sign message" to "Edit Sign Message" in the sign GUI.
Smithing tables

Added functionality: it is used to upgrade diamond items into their respective netherite variations.
Enchantments on the diamond item are preserved when upgrading into netherite.
Smokers

Can now be crafted using crimson or warped planks.
Smooth quartz

Renamed to "smooth quartz block".
Snow

Buttons, doors, pressure plates, rails, redstone dust, and torches can now be placed on a full-block of snow layers.
Soul sand

Soul sand with a rail on top no longer slows down minecarts.
Buttons, doors, pressure plates, rails, redstone dust, and torches can now be placed on it.
Walking/running speed on soul sand now can be sped up if wearing Soul Speed boots.
Structure blocks

Expanded the maximum size per axis from 32 to 48, to accommodate the new bastion remnants.
TNT

Now ignites when hit by any burning projectile.
Vines

Now play a sound when climbed.
Walls

Walls in the middle of a row have longer pillars when stacked vertically.
Block state now uses none, low, and tall for east, west, north, and south directional values.
Now connect to the bottom and sides of glass panes and iron bars.
Now connect to the bottom of sea pickles.
Now change into posts when pressure plates and banners are placed on them.


=== Items ===
Bone meal

Can now be used to grow kelp, twisting vines, and weeping vines.
Nether fungi, Nether sprouts, crimson roots, and warped roots; now grow on nylium if bone meal is used on a nylium block.
Charcoal

Can now be smelted only from items in the logs_that_burn block tag.
This change does not affect gameplay, as the new tag contains only items charcoal could be smelted from.
Clay

Renamed to "Clay Ball".
Compass

Can now be enchanted with Curse of Vanishing.
Can now be used on the new lodestone block as a waypoint.
The compass now has LodestonePos, LodestoneDimension, and LodestoneTracked data fields. If LodestoneTracked is zero, game skips checking for a lodestone in the specified position.
Now points to the center of the spawn point block instead of its northwest corner.
Diamond axe, diamond boots, diamond helmet, diamond hoe, diamond leggings, diamond pickaxe, diamond shovel, diamond sword, golden hoe, golden pickaxe, wooden hoe, and wooden pickaxe

Changed their textures slightly.
Food

Can now be placed on unlit campfires.
Hoes

Can now be enchanted with Efficiency, Fortune and Silk Touch.
Now mine sponges, wet sponges, dried kelp blocks, Nether wart blocks, targets, shroomlights, leaves, and hay bales faster than other tools.
Mining with a hoe does not cause leaves to drop like mining with shears does.
As hoes can now be enchanted with Fortune or Silk Touch, these enchantments now affect leaves when mined with a hoe.
Each tier has different speed at which hoes mine blocks they are effective against.
Maps

Map making sounds are now same as when using cartography tables.
Spawn eggs

Using a spawn egg on a mob that does not have a baby variant now spawns an adult of that mob type.
Stone axes, hoes, pickaxes, shovels, and swords

Can now be crafted with blackstone.
Water buckets

Can now be obtained in Creative mode when an empty bucket is used on water.
If a bucket of water is in the player’s inventory already, no additional water buckets are added when an empty bucket is used on water.
Zombie pigman spawn eggs

Renamed to zombified piglin spawn egg.


=== Mobs ===

General

Now avoid walking on magma blocks and lit campfires.
Mobs except wither skeletons can no longer spawn within blocks occupied by a wither rose.
Spawning has been tweaked to more closely follow mob caps.
Mobs in soul sand valleys and warped forests create a radius around them that prevents other mobs of the same type from spawning, which gets bigger as more mobs spawn.
Players can no longer mount another entity when the crouch key is held down.
The neutral mob NBT tag AngryAt is now used when the mob is angry at any entity, not just players.
Mobs that are riders of other mobs and entities no longer despawn.
Therefore, passengers of boats and minecarts no longer despawn.
Bees

The maximum distance a bee can wander away from its home hive when randomly wandering has been reduced to around 22 blocks.
Now grow up and count down their breeding cool down when inside a beehive.
Cows

Can now be milked in Creative mode.
Endermen

Now spawn in soul sand valleys and warped forests.
Can now pick up nylium, crimson roots, warped roots, and Nether fungi variants.
No longer pick up netherrack.
No longer despawn when holding a block.
Fish

Now despawn when they are further than 64 blocks away from the closest player.
Does not apply to fish placed or named by the player.
Now have their own mob category and mob cap.
Ghasts

Sounds are now heard at a shorter range.
Now spawn in soul sand valleys and basalt deltas.
Mooshrooms

Can now be milked in Creative mode.
Mushroom stew and suspicious stew can now be obtained in Creative mode.
Iron golems

Villagers can now spawn iron golems regardless of their profession status or latest working time.
Magma cubes

Now spawn commonly in basalt deltas.
Parrots

Imitate hostile mobs less often.
Do not randomly imitate hostile mobs when the game mode is set to Peaceful difficulty.
Shulkers

Shulkers with NoAI can now be summoned with rotation.
Skeletons

Now spawn in soul sand valleys.
Skeleton horses and zombie horses

Can now be leashed with a lead.
Snow golems

Shearing a snow golem drops the pumpkin.
Now take damage from splash and lingering water bottles.
Villagers

Farmer villagers now put excess seeds in their composter.
Use the bone meal received from the composter to grow crops.
Farmers can now share excess wheat to other farmers, allowing them to make bread.
Villager workstation logic changes.
Villagers no longer try to work at the same workstation.
When a workstation is placed, the most experienced nearby villager for that corresponding profession gets the workstation.
Villagers now have to walk to and reach the workstation before they can acquire the profession/work there.
Villagers check and make sure their workstation is valid at all times of day as long as they are within 16 blocks of their workstation.
Villagers can no longer claim workstations/professions during raids or night time.
The experience bar now accurately reflects how much experience villagers have and need.
Clocks and compasses no longer function in the villager trading UI.
Witches

When a villager is struck by lightning, the witch it converts to no longer despawns.
Withers

Can be summoned using soul soil as the base.
Can now be built sideways even at Y=0 and Y=1.
Wither skeletons

Now attack piglins on sight.
Zombie pigmen

Renamed to "Zombified Piglins", and given a new model and texture.
Now spawn in crimson forests.
No longer attack players who have not attacked a zombified piglin.
Now stop being angry if the targeted player dies nearby.


=== Non-mob entities ===
 Armor stands 

No longer delete replaceable blocks such as snow, grass, fire etc. when placed inside them.
Item frames

Have two new data tags:
Invisible – makes item frame invisible (item inside frame remains visible).
Fixed – prevents item frame from breaking and the item inside from being removed (it does not prevent item rotation).
Minecarts

Now check dismount position height against entity height.


=== World generation ===
Ceiling

Alongside mushrooms, huge crimson and warped fungi can generate over Y=128 in the Nether.
Floating Islands

Guardians and pillagers now spawn correctly in floating islands worlds.
Nether biome

The old "Nether" biome is now called "Nether Wastes".
Structures

Shipwrecks and ocean ruins are now less common.
Fossils no longer overlap desert temples.
Intersecting dungeons no longer replace spawners with cobblestone.
Fossils, ocean ruins, and monster rooms no longer overlap end portals.
Villages

"Jellie" cats now spawn naturally in villages.
World types

Buffet worlds can no longer be created from server.properties.
Zombie villages

Zombie villagers that spawn in zombie villages no longer despawn.


=== Command format ===
General

The message shown when running an unknown/incomplete command has changed.
/clear

/clear now works with items in the inventory crafting grid.
/datapack

Changed the chat output when enabling/disabling a data pack from "Enabled/Disabled data pack <datapack>" to "Enabling/Disabling data pack <datapack>".
/locate

Can now be used to locate Nether fossils and bastion remnants.
Structure names are now specified as lowercase.
/spawnpoint

Now supports being run in any of the dimensions.
/spreadplayers

Added the ability to control the height.
Syntax: /spreadplayers <center> <spreadDistance> <maxRange> under <maxHeight> <respectTeams> <targets>
maxHeight specifies the maximum height for resulting positions.


=== Gameplay ===
Advancements

The "Serious Dedication" advancement has been changed.
It is now awarded for obtaining a netherite hoe.
Changed the description from "Completely use up a diamond hoe, and then reevaluate your life choices" to "Use a Netherite ingot to upgrade a hoe, and then reevaluate your life choices."
Has been renamed to obtain_netherite_hoe.json. This means progress in this advancement is not kept when upgrading to this version.
Changed the description of "Sweet Dreams" from "Change your respawn point" to "Sleep in a bed to change your respawn point."
Changed the description of "Not Today, Thank You" from "Deflect an arrow or trident with a shield" to "Deflect a projectile with a shield."
Changed the description of "Ice Bucket Challenge" from "Form and mine a block of obsidian" to "Obtain a block of obsidian."
Changed the description of "Sky's the Limit" from "Find Elytra" to "Find elytra."
Elder guardians, ender dragons, endermites, hoglins, piglins, vexes, withers, and zoglins can now be killed for the "Monster Hunter" advancement, and they are now required for the "Monsters Hunted" advancement.
Breeding hoglins and striders can unlock now "The Parrots and the Bats" advancement, and are required for the "Two by Two" advancement.
The advancement "Two By Two" now requires donkeys and mules as well.
This advancement now checks the child resulting from breeding.
Obtaining blackstone now also counts for the "Stone Age" advancement.
Removed the safely_harvest_honey advancement trigger as it was made redundant by item_used_on_block.
Added player check to every trigger (except impossible).
Due to addition of player, existing contents of location, slept_in_bed, hero_of_the_village, voluntary_exile can now be placed in location field instead of top-level object.
Old syntax is still supported, but deprecated.
Entity checks in triggers can now use loot table condition syntax.
All conditions in top level array must be met for whole condition to trigger
To access new functionality, top level element must be JSON array
JSON objects are interpreted as old notation
Full list of extended triggers:
New field player in every trigger
bred_animals: parent, partner, child
channeled_lightning: victims
cured_zombie_villager: zombie, villager
fishing_rod_hooked: entity
killed_by_crossbow: victims
player_killed_entity: entity
entity_killed_player: entity
player_hurt_entity: entity
summoned_entity: entity
tame_animal: entity
target_hit: projectile
villager_trade: villager
Ambience

New mood detection algorithm for cave sounds.
Aims to make ambient cave sounds play at more appropriate moments.
Mood increases the longer a player remains underground.
Mood increases the longer a player remains without or in the low sky light or block light.​[more information needed]
Mood decreases and eventually resets the longer a player is neither underground nor in the absence of light.
The player can check the percentage of the mood in the sounds info section in the debug screen.
When the mood percentage reaches 100%, an ambient cave sound plays.
Death messages

Added a new death message for being killed by an entity's wither skull projectile, "<player> was shot by a <entity>'s skull".
Debug messages

Changed the description of the F3+N shortcut in the F3+Q output from "F3 + N = Cycle creative <-> spectator" to "F3 + N = Cycle previous gamemode <-> spectator".
Debug screen

Added a new line detailing mob spawning.
SC represents the number of chunks in which mobs can spawn. It is the same value given in debug reports as spawning_chunks.
M, C, A, W, and M represent the number of mobs for each group that contribute to that group's mob cap. The groups are Monster, Creature, Ambient, Water_Creature, and Misc. They're also in debug reports.
In the Targeted Block and Targeted Fluid fields, the coordinates of the targeted block or fluid are now shown as well.
The "Looking At" field has been removed in favor of this.
Dual wield

Item can be swapped into the off-hand from any open inventory, instead from only the hotbar.
Enchantments

If the player has the Mending enchantment on any items, XP now always goes to healing the items before going to the XP bar.
Before, the enchantment would randomly choose an item when XP was received. If the item was fully healed, the XP would go to the XP bar.
Fishing

When fishing, treasure loot can now be obtained only by fishing in open waters.
A fishing location is considered to be open water if each layer in the 5×4×5 area around the bobber meets one and only one of the following criteria:
Have only water source blocks, waterlogged blocks without collision, or bubble columns.
Has only lily pads.
Lily pads are now considered junk fishing loot rather than treasure.
Knockback resistance

Is now a scale of the amount of knockback taken instead of a probability to take no knockback.
Patrols

Patrols no longer spawn when the player is close to any intact village.
Recipe book

The cartography table recipe now unlocks with paper instead of string.
Stained glass pane recipes now unlock only when the player has the same color of stained glass in their inventory.
Charcoal now unlocks using the logs_that_burn item tag.
Clocks and compasses no longer function in the recipe book menu.
Repairing

Blackstone can now be used to repair stone tools.
Sounds

Updated block sounds for bone blocks, netherrack, Nether bricks (and variants), Nether quartz ore, Nether wart blocks, and soul sand.
block.portal.travel and block.portal.trigger sounds are now part of the "ambient/environment" sound category adjustable in options.
Shearing sound category was changed from "friendly creatures" to "players" for players using shears and to "blocks" for dispensers using shears.
Spawn

Players can reset their spawn point using a bed when hostile mobs are near, although players still cannot sleep when hostile mobs are near.
Subtitles

Changed the subtitle for zombified piglins angry grunts from "Zombified Piglin angers" to "Zombified Piglin grunts angrily".
Changed the subtitle for zombie villagers converting from "Zombie vociferates" to "Zombie Villager vociferates".
Changed the subtitle for zombie villagers being cured from "Zombie snuffles" to "Zombie Villager snuffles".
Changed the subtitle for stripping logs and wood from "Debarking log" to "Axe scrapes".
Changed the capitalization of "Blast furnace crackles" to "Blast Furnace crackles".
Changed the capitalization of "Enchanting table used" to "Enchanting Table used".
Changed the capitalization of "Turtle egg breaks" to "Turtle Egg breaks".
Changed the capitalization of "Turtle egg cracks" to "Turtle Egg cracks".
Changed the capitalization of "Turtle egg hatches" to "Turtle Egg hatches".
Removed the subtitle "Horse lands".


=== General ===
Animations

Hand animations have been added for the following:
Entering a boat
Shearing sheep (a regression from 1.15.2).
Feeding a brown mooshroom.
Using a spawn egg on a mob to spawn a baby variant, if there wouldn't also be a block within reach through said mob.
Hand animations for the following have been removed:
Targeting a block through a mob then using a spawn egg.
Attempting to switch a minecart with furnace's direction when it isn't on a rail
Using a dye on a sheep which already has that color.
Using a dye on a sheared sheep.
Attributes

Items and entities no longer keep unknown attributes.
Attribute names now use resource locations.
Names of some attributes have been renamed to meet resource location requirements (i.e., lowercase separated by underscores instead of camelCase).
Changed generic.maxHealth to generic.max_health.
Changed zombie.spawnReinforcements to zombie.spawn_reinforcements.
Changed horse.jumpStrength to horse.jump_strength.
Changed generic.followRange to generic.follow_range.
Changed generic.knockbackResistance to generic.knockback_resistance.
Changed generic.movementSpeed to generic.movement_speed.
Changed generic.flyingSpeed to generic.flying_speed.
Changed generic.attackDamage to generic.attack_damage
Changed generic.attackKnockback to generic.attack_knockback
Changed generic.attackSpeed to generic.attack_speed
Changed generic.armorToughness to generic.armor_toughness.
Block storage format

Block storage format in chunks has been slightly changed to speed up various tasks (rendering, pathfinding, world generation, etc.).
BlockStates in Sections elements no longer contain values stretching over multiple 64-bit fields.
If the number of bits per block is not a power of two (i.e. single 64-bit value can't fill whole number of blockstates) some bits are not used.
For example, if a single block state takes 5 bits, the highest 4 bits of every 64-bit field are unused. That also means a slight increase in storage size (in case of 5 bits, from 320 to 342 64-bit fields).
Chat

Changed the capitalization of "Click to copy to Clipboard" to "Click to Copy to Clipboard".
Changed "Your home bed was missing or obstructed" to "You have no home bed or charged respawn anchor, or it was obstructed".
client.jar

Removed Realms code from the client, but its assets remain.
Collision

Minor optimizations in collision detection.
Credits

Updated the credits.
Data packs

Slightly changed data pack loading to prevent custom data packs from crashing.
If data pack reload fails, changes are not applied and the game continues using previous data.
Changes to data pack list are stored only after successful reload.
If existing data packs prevent world from loading, the game gives option to load world in safe mode, which loads only vanilla data pack.
Added --safeMode option for servers to load only with vanilla data pack.
Game detects any critical data pack issues, such as required tags being missing, and prevents the world from being loaded.
Entering the world in an unknown dimension (caused by disabling a data pack which added said dimension) now puts the player in the Overworld at the same coordinates.
Debug menu

When outside the world's vertical area, the debug menu no longer lists 'minecraft:the_void' as the biome.
Instead, it simply hides the biome information.
Floating-point precision

Certain game mechanics, mainly a handful of different particles, have been modified to use 64-bit (double-precision) precision where they previously used 32-bit (single-precision).
As a result, the effects appear in the correct places even if the player is far away from the spawn point (with effects being the most extreme when over 16,777,216 blocks away). See Java Edition distance effects for a further explanation and history of such effects.
The following precision loss errors are fixed:
Bone meal particles should now appear at the right position.
Lava embers and popping sounds should now originate from the correct positions.
Campfire embers should now be generated at the correct position.
Particles from redstone repeaters should now appear at the correct position.
Particles from Nether biomes should now appear at the correct position.
Particles from adding eye of enders to end portal frames should now appear at the correct position.
Particles dripping from leaves during rain no longer snap to block corners and are correctly randomized across the underside of the block.
The book of the enchanting table now opens properly at high distances; previously there were cases where the player could be pressed right up to the block, yet the book would not acknowledge them.
TNT ignited by other explosions now appears at the right locations at high distances.
Detector rails at high distances were not always being correctly powered and depowered, which has been fixed.
Mob spawning would also break down, spawning mobs at block corners and sometimes inside of other blocks.
Generation of minecarts with chests in mineshafts now spawns them at the intended positions..
Fonts

Chat component style now supports font property, which is resource location for font in the resource pack. No entry is equivalent to minecraft:default.
Full range of Unicode characters is supported, making it possible to type emojis and other Unicode characters outside of the Basic Multilingual Plane.
However, custom resource packs must be used to display correct characters instead of tofu, due to the lack of these characters in the default font.
Force Unicode option now switches between normal and alternative font (called uniform.json) – no reload needed.
Many new characters have been added.
Includes several remaining Latin and Armenian-language ligatures and the Georgian alphabet.
The new characters are: ´¨ᴀʙᴄᴅᴇꜰɢʜᴊᴋʟᴍɴᴏᴘꞯʀꜱᴛᴜᴠᴡʏᴢ§ɱɳɲʈɖɡʡɕʑɸʝʢɻʁɦʋɰɬɮʘǀǃǂǁɓɗᶑʄɠʛɧɫɨʉʊɘɵɤɜɞɑɒɚɝƁƉƑƩƲႠႡႢႣႤႥႦႧႨႩႪႫႬႭႮႯႰႱႲႳႴႵႶႷႸႹႺႻႼႽႾႿჀჁჂჃჄჅჇჍაბგდევზთიკლმნოპჟრსტუფქღყშჩცძწჭხჯჰჱჲჳჴჵჶჷჸჹჺ჻ჼჽჾჿתּשׂפֿפּכּײַיִוֹוּבֿבּꜧꜦɺⱱʠʗʖɭɷɿʅʆʓʚ₪₾֊ⴀⴁⴂⴃⴄⴅⴆⴡⴇⴈⴉⴊⴋⴌⴢⴍⴎⴏⴐⴑⴒⴣⴓⴔⴕⴖⴗⴘⴙⴚⴛⴜⴝⴞⴤⴟⴠⴥ⅛⅜⅝⅞⅓⅔✉☂☔☄⛄☃⌛⌚⚐✎❣♤♧♡♢⛈☰☱☳☴☶☷↔⇒⇏⇔⇵∀∃∄∉∋∌⊂⊃⊄⊅∧∨⊻⊼⊽∥≢⋆∑⊤⊥⊢⊨≔∁∴∵∛∜∂⋃⊆⊇□△▷▽◁◆◇○◎☆★✘₀₁₂₃₄₅₆₇₈₉₊₋₌₍₎∫∮∝⌀⌂⌘〒ɼƄƅẟȽƚƛȠƞƟƧƨƪƸƹƻƼƽƾȡȴȵȶȺⱥȻȼɆɇȾⱦɁɂɃɄɈɉɊɋɌɍɎɏẜẝỼỽỾỿꞨꞩ𐌰𐌱𐌲𐌳𐌴𐌵𐌶𐌷𐌸𐌹𐌺𐌻𐌼𐌽𐌾𐌿𐍀𐍁𐍂𐍃𐍄𐍅𐍆𐍇𐍈𐍉𐍊🌧🔥🌊
Hitboxes

Fire now has a hitbox, unlike previously, where it did not, when putting out fire required targeting its base blocks.
Redstone dust's hitbox now correctly confirms to its shape, much like the hitboxes of fences, walls, glass panes, and iron bars.
This also includes when the redstone is traveling up a vertical surface, so the upward portion can be targeted without hitting the block underlying.
Loot tables

Entity predicate
Added fishing_hook sub-predicate.
fishing_hook
Check properties of the fishing hook.
in_open_water parameter matches whether the fishing location is open water fishing or not.
Can be set to "false" in-game files to make AFK fishing farms work again. This removes the restriction of being able to obtain loot only from normal waters.
Main menu

The main menu background is now set in the Nether.
The menu panorama uses seed 6006096527635909600 at coordinates X = 482.208, Y = 78.515, Z = -1127.193
The "Singleplayer" button jumps directly to "Create World" screen if there are no worlds to select.
Materials

Added new Nether wood material.
Uses the wood material color.
Uses default properties.
Whether or not a block requires a tool is now no longer a property of a material and is now assigned on a block-by-block basis.

Title screen

Updated Mojang Studios and Minecraft logos.
Miscellaneous

Added a JMX MBean to monitor dedicated server tick times.​[more information needed]
Models

All "block states" files have improved spacing, and now define the namespace when referring to the model.
All model files now define the namespace when referring to a different model.
Multiplayer screen

Changed "Online play is not rated" to "Caution: Third-Party Online Play".
Changed "During online play you may be exposed to chat messages or other types of user generated content that has not been rated, and may not be suitable for all ages." to "Caution: Online play is offered by third-party servers that are not owned, operated, or supervised by Mojang or Microsoft. During online play, you may be exposed to unmoderated chat messages or other types of user-generated content that may not be suitable for everyone."
NBT tags

The Dimension NBT tag is now a resource location string instead of a number, which is used in player.dat.
Obsidian platform

Obsidian platform now can get regenerated when a non-player entity enters the End through an end portal.
Optimizing worlds

The progress bar when optimizing worlds are now color-coded according to the type of dimension, and the ratio is calculated according to the number of chunks to optimize for each.
Green for the Overworld, brown for the Nether, and light orange for the End.
This applies even with custom dimensions.
Options

The localization key for the offhand keybinding was changed from key.swapHands to key.swapOffhand.
Changed the description of the offhand swap key in the controls section from "Swap Item In Hands" to "Swap Item With Offhand".
Changed the description of fancy graphics to "'Fancy' graphics balances performance and quality for the majority of machines. [New line] Weather, clouds and particles may not appear behind translucent blocks or water."
Was previously "'Fancy' graphics balances performance and quality for the majority of machines."
Particles

 Bone meal particles
Now use 64-bit floats for spawning, not 32-bit.
This means that using bone meal at high distances from the world origin (notably greater than 17 million) causes the particles to appear in expected places, and not far away from the target.
Pathfinding

Cached repeated block type lookups and collisions during pathfinding for increased performance.
Predicates

Top-level element in predicate file can now be array (all contents are ANDed).
Raw JSON text format

The JSON color component now supports 6-digit hexadecimal colors to specify custom colors other than the 16 default color codes.
Example: /tellraw @a {"text":"Turquoise output","color":"#00ff88"}
The hoverEvent chat component now uses the parameter contents, with contents depending on type:
For show_text – chat component
For show_item – either item id or object with fields id, count and tag (with last one being serialized NBT)
For show_entity – object with fields: id (UUID), name (chat component) and type (entity type resource location)
The value argument is now deprecated, but still supported.
Realms

Removed translation strings of:
mco.create.world.seed.
mco.trial.title.
mco.trial.unavailable.
Recipe book

There is now a text that says "Search..." in the recipe book.
Region files

Region files are now opened in synchronous mode only on Windows, not on other operating systems. Status of this feature can be manually controlled by following options:
For dedicated servers: sync-chunk-writes within server.properties.
For clients: syncChunkWrites within options.txt.
Rendering

Improved entity shadows to the ground.
Made experimental changes to graphics rendering.
Added shader support for accessing the depth buffer.
The renderer now uses per-pixel blending layers for some transparent elements.
Saved toolbars

Renamed to "Saved Hotbars"
Servers

Added a enable-status option to the server.properties file which if set to false suppresses replies to status requests from clients.
This makes the server appear offline in the multiplayer screen.
Added control over how much entity data a server sends to clients: entity-broadcast-range-percentage server property, controlling how close entities need to be before being sent to clients.
Higher values mean entities are visible further away from players but cause more network traffic.
Specifies a percentage of the default value so, for example, 50 specifies half of the default range.
Splashes

The splash "Sexy!" was changed to "Moderately attractive!"
Removed some splashes:
Undocumented!
Down with O.P.P.!
Lewd with two dudes with food!
Switches and ores!
Huge tracts of land!
Totally forgot about Dre!
Popping tags!
Getting ready to show!
Getting ready to know!
Getting ready to drop!
Getting ready to shock!
Getting ready to freak!
Getting ready to speak!
Statistics

General statistics are now ordered alphabetically in the statistics menu.
Superflat

Removed structure settings from flat level preset strings as it was broken due to the addition of customizable worlds.
Tags

Added crimson and warped wooden items to the planks, standing_signs, wall_signs, wooden_buttons, wooden_doors, wooden_fences, wooden_pressure_plates, wooden_slabs, wooden_stairs, and wooden_trapdoors block tags.
Added crimson and warped wooden items to the planks, signs, wooden_buttons, wooden_doors, wooden_fences, wooden_pressure_plates, wooden_slabs, wooden_stairs, and wooden_trapdoors item tags.
Added polished blackstone, and (where applicable) blackstone blocks and items to the buttons, slabs, stairs, and walls block and item tags.
Added potted crimson fungus, crimson roots, warped fungus, and warped roots to the flower_pots block tag.
Added crying obsidian and respawn anchors to the dragon_immune block tag.
Updated block tag enderman_holdable.
Added Nether fungi, nylium variants, crimson roots, and warped roots.
Removed netherrack variant.
The slabs block and item tags now use the respective wooden_slabs tag.
Changed the logs block and item tags to use the logs_that_burn, crimson_stems, and warped_stems block and item tags, respectively.
Changed the music_discs item tag to use the creeper_drop_music_discs item tag and the Pigstep music disc.
Changed the stairs block and item tags to use their respective wooden_stairs tag.
This has effectively made crimson stairs and warped stairs a part of this tag.
The sand block tag is now used to determine whether turtle eggs can hatch on a block.
The Nether

Changed the ambient lighting in the Nether; it is now much darker.
UUIDs

UUIDs stored in NBT are also represented as an array of four integers, rather than UUIDMost/UUIDLeast.
Example: {UUID:[I;1498693494,1027158888,1898994005,860320107]}
Renamed a couple of fields:
OwnerUUID of tamed animals, area effect clouds, evoker fangs and projectiles is now simply Owner.
TrustedUUIDs of foxes is now Trusted.
target_uuid of conduits is now Target.
Worlds

Old customized worlds (from before Java Edition 1.13) now say "Old Customized" in the world selection screen.
World creation

A loading screen is now displayed while the game is reading world data for loading, creating or re-creating a world.
Gamerule descriptions now span multiple lines if needed on the game rules screen.
Changed the capitalization of some strings.
"Create backup and load" was changed to "Create Backup and Load".
"Go back" was changed to "Go Back".
"Reset to default" was changed to "Reset to Default".
World save files

Region files are now opened in synchronous mode to increase prevent data loss and corruption after a crash.
Dedicated servers can disable that by changing sync-chunk-writes inside server.properties.
World save format

Saving level.dat now uses randomly-named temporary files (instead of using level.dat_new every time).
player/*.dat are now saved in a way similar to level.dat (including leaving .dat_old files).
World selection

Changed "Failed to access level" to "Failed to access world".
Changed "Failed to delete level" to "Failed to delete world".


== Fixes ==
469 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.12

MC-667 – Lily pads can be placed intersecting entities.
MC-1601 – Breaking a furnace will not give the player experience for the smelted things inside.
MC-2255 – Redstone wire uses different criteria for connecting visually and logically.
MC-2591 – Walking over the corner of lava deals damage.
MC-3328 – Dismounting an entity places riding entity/player half block too high.
MC-4065 – Messages and commands sent while in a bed will not be remembered in sent history.
MC-4520 – Aggressive neutral mobs become neutral when the world is reloaded.
MC-4641 – Third level of flowing lava will not create cobblestone when coming into contact with water.
MC-5410 – In Creative mode, flying down is stopped when brushing up against ladders or vines.
MC-7424 – Fall damage death messages do not show block players fall from correctly (ladders, vines, water).
MC-8645 – Redstone wire receiving level 1 power from a block, pointing at another block with wire on it will not power that block.
MC-9405 – Top piece of staircase redstone dust does not power blocks on the same height in the direction it is powered from unless connected to something on the other side.
MC-9856 – Players cannot pick up buckets of water or lava in Creative mode.
MC-10727 – Player and entity shadows experience z-fighting with redstone.
MC-11211 – Unable to perform many right-click actions when targeting the top face of blocks placed at y=255.
MC-13727 – Arrows shot from a bow bounce around on the horse when it is moving, and damages it if they are fire arrows.
MC-13823 – Leads are incorrectly positioned on certain entities.
MC-14680 – Lead is shifted upward or downward based on leashed entity height.
MC-17431 – ⇧ Shift-clicking stacked items with a data tag into the enchanting table GUI removes data tags from the moved item.
MC-27535 – Mobs can sometimes still despawn, even if named with a name tag.
MC-30814 – Chat text is too close together.
MC-30939 – Nether portal continues emitting light, even if portal is broken.
MC-31032 – Using only one empty map does not increase minecraft.used:minecraft.map.
MC-36322 – Unable to milk cows in Creative.
MC-37557 – Sometimes a minecart sound plays/subtitle shown when loading a world.
MC-44192 – generic.knockbackResistance is percentage chance to ignore knockback, rather than being scaled.
MC-45619 – Water, signs, vines, torches, etc. in the same block as item frame break the item frame's redstone signal.
MC-45749 – Potion particles spread always from the northwest corner of a block, regardless of impact.
MC-46417 – Sprint particles are emitted in Spectator mode.
MC-51126 – Arrows disappear until after relogging when shot at low angles from a boat.
MC-52178 – Cape does not move down while sneaking and detaches from body while sneaking.
MC-55493 – JSON text selectors always have predefined clickEvent and hoverEvent.
MC-56373 – Selector and score text components do not work on hoverEvents.
MC-56653 – Zombified piglins drop XP and rare drops if killed by anything while in angered state.
MC-56970 – Leaves show x-ray effect on Fast graphics.
MC-59363 – Items in item frames are deleted if both mouse buttons are used simultaneously.
MC-59540 – Creating superflat world without layers causes to get "Classic Flat".
MC-60933 – Creative: player is sporadically and momentarily lit on fire.
MC-63020 – Some chunks are not rendered in the first person from some angles in certain situations (incorrect frustum culling).
MC-63714 – Zombified piglins get angry when hit in Creative mode.
MC-64242 – Silent tag is not working for some entities.
MC-64334 – Fire can be destroyed if given an item with CanDestroy tag for unbreakable block below (notably bedrock).
MC-64623 – Lightning bolts cannot be targeted with selectors.
MC-64871 – Can not sleep while on fire, even with Fire Resistance.
MC-65951 – Armor stands fall through fences.
MC-69032 – When mob hits a zombified piglin and that mob dies, zombified piglins will attack the player.
MC-75328 – /clear does not clear items in the inventory crafting grid.
MC-76810 – Casting issue: bone meal particles break at high coordinates (floating-point precision).
MC-77176 – When retracted by sticky piston, activated detector rails do not update their orientation.
MC-77820 – Ender dragon death light glitch/bug.
MC-79944 – Various statistics overflow at 32-bit integer limit.
MC-81659 – Fireball and wither skull hitboxes are frequently invisible for some seconds.
MC-82235 – Baby pigs turn into adult zombie pigmen when struck by lightning.
MC-82995 – Blocking with two shields in 3rd person mode.
MC-83039 – End city chests generate destroyed, items on the ground.
MC-84610 – Off-hand hotkey does not work in inventories.
MC-85527 – Shulkers opening into blocks.
MC-86197 – Shield blocking happens even while eating.
MC-87949 – The shield use statistic is not working.
MC-88491 – Projectiles hit the player, snowman, and witch who threw them at certain angles or close to the entities.
MC-89043 – Slime blocks moved by pistons often fail to bounce up the player.
MC-89361 – Player selectors fail finding player/Player is not correctly moved from the End to the Nether.
MC-89956 – Levitation has no effect if gliding with elytra.
MC-90969 – Cannot get stew from mooshrooms in Creative mode.
MC-91163 – Certain subtitles show up when the player is too far away to hear the sound.
MC-91368 – Ender dragon taking damage from thorns in Creative mode.
MC-91522 – Shulker rendering position desync and generates ghost shulker when destroying shulker-ridden boat or minecart.
MC-91893 – Missing subtitles for various sounds.
MC-92889 – Mending does not always consume experience if the player wears items with Mending that are already fully repaired.
MC-93198 – Throwing potions or throwable projectiles cause both hands to bob up and down.
MC-93477 – Shulkers opening into shulker.
MC-93631 – Pistons pop off blocks attached to their back when retracting.
MC-93813 – Snow golems throwing snowballs play arrow shooting sound.
MC-94094 – Snow golems do not drop their pumpkin when sheared.
MC-94535 – Flying and holding Ctrl really close to the ground emits walking particles.
MC-94730 – Endermen become passive when teleporting randomly during day while being aggressive.
MC-96319 – Mob pathfinding AI does not regard some blocks as obstructions and is unable to pathfind on top of them.
MC-96436 – Eggs, snowballs, and experience bottles break instantly when thrown while riding a horse.
MC-97247 – Map making sound uses equipment sound subtitle.
MC-97507 – Using item which modifies the held item shows "Gear equips" subtitle.
MC-97958 – Small slime has no jump or squish sound.
MC-99727 – Ghasts can be located using subtitles.
MC-100258 – Holding right-click on an untamed horse causes an obnoxiously loud sound.
MC-100342 – Several non-ticking blocks are marked as ticking forcing the growth algorithm to check chunks needlessly.
MC-101084 – Held items and blocks appear to bob up and down when opening a horse's inventory.
MC-101364 – Mobs and players sometimes dismount vehicles in a dangerous place.
MC-101374 – Endermen will not dodge melee attacks if the player is not aiming at their head.
MC-102319 – Nether portal trigger and travel sounds are not assigned to any sound category.
MC-102439 – Shield desynchronises.
MC-103655 – Cats do not stand up when using right-click on them while they are sitting on chests or beds.
MC-104900 – Skeletons, illusioners, and piglins with crossbows have broken agility reaction when hit, or walking on certain blocks when provoked.
MC-104949 – Mobs cannot jump shorter than half of the blocks.
MC-105132 – Horse, spider, and llama spin around when walking next to the fence or wall.
MC-105292 – falling_block lighting inconsistency with Smooth Lighting on.
MC-106968 – Snow golems are not damaged by splash or lingering water bottles.
MC-107103 – Trying to interact with an entity 3 or more blocks away without seeing its eyes only interacts client-side.
MC-108598 – Client rendering other player or mob holding compass influences compass of user.
MC-109121 – 2×2 jungle and spruce trees do not grow from the lowest layer.
MC-109248 – Extended piston head not removed when /setblock is used to place a different piston base.
MC-109370 – Bottom face of column blocks is rotated 180 degrees.
MC-109844 – en_us.json contains unused strings.
MC-109850 – Redstone wire does not have a bottom texture.
MC-111133 – Piston pushing opened shulker makes said shulker glitch.
MC-111381 – Rendering rotations for shulkers are set in onInitialSpawn method.
MC-111437 – Player activated fireworks do not count as a player kill.
MC-111475 – Fireworks cannot hurt invulnerable mobs when player in Creative mode.
MC-111493 – Fireworks do not cause knockback to either the player or mobs.
MC-111498 – Fireworks and water bottle damage do not make neutral mobs angry or hostile.
MC-111502 – Fireworks damage does not make passive mobs flee in panic.
MC-111726 – Minecart dismount position always above the minecart, even if there is space next to it.
MC-112131 – Intersecting dungeons: spawner replaced by cobblestone.
MC-112630 – Carrot on a stick cannot be broken.
MC-113068 – Zombie banging on door subtitle is called "Block broken".
MC-113381 – Falling dust particles of anvil and concrete powder blocks are black.
MC-113809 – Chorus flower plant, bamboo, sugarcane, cactus, and other plants grow instantly when supporting block is replaced with same block type.
MC-114000 – Mouse click in cat hissing sounds.
MC-114030 – Structure blocks take and apply NBT data of entities and tile entities directly instead of a copy when loading and saving structures.
MC-114304 – Retracting piston pushes entities standing behind the back of it.
MC-114544 – Kicked by "Flying is not enabled on this server" while sleeping.
MC-115750 – Advancement "Monster Hunter" (kill_a_mob) is not granted for killing certain hostile mobs.
MC-116293 – Functioning clock and compass in recipe book.
MC-116756 – Reversed and inconsistent subtitles for iron trapdoor.
MC-117312 – Hover and click events are at wrong position for right-to-left languages.
MC-117710 – Bonus Chest setting is not copied when re-creating world.
MC-117805 – Oak trees can generate right below height limit (y=256) resulting in incomplete tree.
MC-117806 – Dispenser with filled bucket at y=255 facing upward replaces filled with empty bucket despite no fluid being placed.
MC-118080 – Bows without pulling predicate animate when other bows are pulled back.
MC-118096 – Incorrect position of particles when using bone meal on grass block.
MC-118217 – Custom text color for advancement title in hover text is overwritten by advancement type default one.
MC-118234 – Advancement "Not Today, Thank You" can be triggered by non-arrow projectiles.
MC-118327 – Parrots cannot teleport onto non-full cubes and transparent blocks.
MC-118594 – Removal of Log4J2Plugins.dat causing a slowdown of 3 secs on startup while it has to rescan all classes.
MC-120335 – Flower pot bottom texture is not rendered because of incorrect uv values in the model file.
MC-120572 – /recipe crashes the game.
MC-120805 – Pig rotation is wrong when a player rides them when using a carrot on a stick.
MC-122128 – Recipe book resets itself to closed state after death.
MC-122187 – Teleported to coordinates wrong when teleporting entities relatively.
MC-122335 – Projectiles go through an entity if it is close to a player or a snow golem.
MC-122715 – /teleport command no longer prevents teleporting to invalid coordinates.
MC-123155 – When any non-player entity enters an End portal the obsidian platform is not regenerated and the entity can fall into the void.
MC-123453 – Armor stands cannot be placed in a 1 block high space if the EntityTag Small:1b is set.
MC-124428 – Firework star crashes game if there is an int array but no colors.
MC-124812 – Endermen holding a block can despawn.
MC-125006 – Stronghold and dungeon generate over each other.
MC-125055 – Igloo generates with brewing stand and flower pot contents dropped (and placed).
MC-125613 – Datapack tag #stairs does not use #wooden_stairs.
MC-126244 – /locate, explorer maps, and treasure maps can cause extreme TPS lag, even leading to a complete server freeze if structure generation is turned off.
MC-127004 – Waterlogged blocks show z-fighting when looking at them from distance.
MC-127149 – Land mobs cannot properly walk on the waterlogged blocks.
MC-127316 – General statistics out of order.
MC-127971 – Trying to throw a trident while having a shield or bow equipped will make the trident appear backward in the player's hand.
MC-128066 – Highly transparent block edges on ice, slime block, and honey block.
MC-128247 – Dolphins can jump way too far causing them to hit on land.
MC-128658 – Nether and End biomes do not use correct blocks in buffet world type.
MC-129137 – Parrots imitating hostile mobs in peaceful is not that peaceful.
MC-130137 – Grass and mycelium do not decay underwater.
MC-130906 – Dolphins are moving fast when near a boat.
MC-131046 – Angry dolphins give players Dolphin's Grace.
MC-131286 – Attack will use right hand instead of left hand when swimming (main hand: left).
MC-131360 – Music sometimes stops abruptly when going underwater.
MC-131440 – The message for trying to sleep at the wrong time implies that players can sleep only during a thunderstorm at night.
MC-131634 – Getting burnt if on top of non-full block.
MC-131770 – Rain particles appear one block below the water or lava surface.
MC-132236 – When executing /reload and then pressing L to open advancements, it instead tells me that there are no advancements unless I click.
MC-132607 – Splitting slimes and magma cubes do not copy NoAI value.
MC-132926 – The width of an advancement's description depends on the first line.
MC-132967 – Mushrooms show as green dots on map.
MC-133049 – Compasses do not point to the correct location when in an item frame on the ground or on the ceiling.
MC-133088 – Missing translation string death.attack.magic.player.
MC-133692 – When the player is in lava, the orange appears darker/completely black at Y=0 and below.
MC-134162 – Item entities can break turtle eggs.
MC-134481 – Typo in en_us.json: "Status requst has been handled".
MC-134608 – Certain spawner tag conditions induce game crash.
MC-134637 – Comparators on slabs drop when loading them with structure blocks.
MC-134755 – All short mobs drown just below the surface of water.
MC-134900 – server.properties generator-settings for level-type FLAT not implemented; property is stored in ignored flat_world_options NBT.
MC-135034 – Burning mobs are extinguished by snow in cold biomes, but not in snowy biomes.
MC-135106 – Upwards bubble columns allow for infinite flight in Survival at y≥256.
MC-135151 – Typo in en_us.json: "An error occured!".
MC-135333 – Open fence gates still block players in water.
MC-135501 – Invalid tag inside another tag silently fails to reload data packs.
MC-135738 – Bossbar names that have scores do not update as intended after exiting and re-entering the world.
MC-135831 – Low gravity bug at world height.
MC-135849 – Grass and mycelium do not decay under waterlogged blocks.
MC-136063 – Incorrect spacing for entity.minecraft.tropical_fish.type.sunstreak's value.
MC-136085 – Blocks attached to multi-block blocks are deleted when breaking the other half of the block.
MC-136868 – Ignited TNT, arrow, or trident turns black when it falls on soul sand or snow layers.
MC-137336 – Redstone dust's hitbox is inconsistent with other blocks when branching.
MC-137554 – Shearing sound is in "friendly creatures" sound category.
MC-138402 – Waterlogged walls "connect" to water source blocks above.
MC-138600 – Cats do not bring gifts if they have already decided to sit on the user's bed.
MC-138675 – Wither skulls inflict the Wither effect on players in Creative mode.
MC-138713 – "Two by Two" advancement does not require donkeys or mules.
MC-139313 – Ascending and descending simultaneously in lava while flying in Creative mode causes the player to float upwards.
MC-139361 – Skull model positioned out of bounding.
MC-140544 – Pickaxes do not speed up piston breaking.
MC-140545 – Pathfinding prefers north (negative Z) direction.
MC-141934 – Ctrl + Pick block on a lectern does not display its book despite being saved to NBT.
MC-143443 – Redstone dust block states do not update properly if the wire is broken by a piston.
MC-143473 – Teleporting a mob while it is pathfinding will make it navigate back to where it was originally going.
MC-143904 – Adding a non-rail block to the #rails block tag will crash the game when placing a minecart on it.
MC-144107 – Miscalculation of camera position in windowed mode on Linux.
MC-144622 – Using /data modify to set the name from a block only works once.
MC-145140 – Fireballs cannot be interacted with when summoned.
MC-145862 – Villagers try to sleep in occupied beds.
MC-146824 – Ladders and tripwire hooks cannot be placed on the sides of redstone blocks, observers, and target blocks.
MC-146834 – Zombie pigman's head bottom texture is flipped.
MC-146928 – Cannot place doors, rails, buttons, pressure plate, redstone, etc. on soul sand.
MC-147255 – Beds in the Overworld will explode if in a Nether wastes biome.
MC-147368 – Pillager outpost can generate in water.
MC-147496 – Dolphin tries to catch the boat of the non-player ride.
MC-147516 – Hostile mobs will sometimes stop attacking and following their target when directly next to it.
MC-147591 – Cat type "Jellie" does not generate in villages upon world generation.
MC-147601 – Purpur pillar block top texture has not changed to a new texture.
MC-147625 – Ender dragon tries to regenerate from destroyed ender crystals.
MC-147691 – Enderman does not hit or damage the player if they keep standing still.
MC-147708 – Putting out fires is not considered mining a block, leading to strange effects.
MC-148067 – Snow golems damaged by snowfall in mountain or cold biomes.
MC-148360 – Cave ambience sounds play no matter where the player is.
MC-148474 – Sloped powered detector rails break when pushed or pulled by a piston.
MC-148794 – Guardians are not spawning in preset "Floating Island".
MC-148802 – Pillager do not spawn around outpost with the floating island generation.
MC-148836 – World search and world name text boxes are not focused when entering menu anymore.
MC-148869 – Player can clip through the ground when exiting a minecart or boat.
MC-148893 – Fox spawners do not render the fox inside of the block.
MC-148935 – Zombies with no AI still convert into drowned.
MC-148936 – Parrot summoned with negative Age has smaller hitbox.
MC-148955 – Iron golems can spawn inside of non-full blocks.
MC-149042 – Minecart dismount position is not consistent.
MC-149052 – Stonecutter recipe list does not show item tooltips.
MC-149081 – Entering a bed from a mount causes the player to bounce up and down.
MC-149308 – Thrown items appear right in front of head for a frame.
MC-149375 – Camera can be positioned inside of snow layers.
MC-149704 – Sneaking/crouching twice makes player sprint.
MC-149776 – Cartography table requires string for the recipe to show up in the recipe book.
MC-149792 – Client book length mismatch resulting in crash.
MC-149799 – When a crossbow is loaded and in the offhand, it can no longer be seen when carrying an item in the main hand.
MC-150020 – Composter is in the "Miscellaneous" category instead of "Decoration" like the other workstation blocks.
MC-150405 – Client handling of unknown entity attributes is bugged.
MC-150455 – Ignored lava hitbox level.
MC-150543 – Using a stonecutter can sometimes crash the game in certain circumstances.
MC-150806 – Multiple villagers are attached to the same profession block.
MC-151364 – Feeding a dolphin causes a crash when structure generation is turned off.
MC-152001 – Zombie villages never generate with baby zombie villagers.
MC-152084 – Villagers occasionally stand up out of beds at night, then can never sleep in that bed again.
MC-152157 – "Marie Stålkrantz" is not the right color in game credits.
MC-152170 – When a villager takes the bed of another villager, then the bed's previous owner will not look for a new bed.
MC-152441 – Corner quartz stairs (not corner smooth quartz stairs) do not have the border on the back and bottom that a normal quartz stair would have.
MC-152934 – Water and lava disappear when dispensed through a dispenser at build limit.
MC-153319 – Result of UUID selector is nondeterministic.
MC-153483 – When swapping tridents between hands the trident being held does not swap visually, it just flips backward.
MC-153508 – Redstone dust traveling up the side of a block cannot be targeted.
MC-153750 – Gravity decreases at y=256 when the player hops into water at y=255.
MC-153787 – Zombie reinforcements can spawn on glass.
MC-154427 – Villagers only pick up four stacks of items.
MC-154617 – Server hangs on stop due to rcon.
MC-154867 – Tamed cats remain sitting if the world is reloaded while the cat is sitting on a chest.
MC-155742 – Iron golems tend to congregate on the north side of villages.
MC-155977 – Enchanting a book makes the book lose its name.
MC-156161 – Some chest loot is randomized across the same seed, unlike before 1.14.
MC-156306 – Villager not throwing bread during idle or meet up times.
MC-156442 – Some Latin and Armenian ligatures are not included in the Minecraft font.
MC-156600 – Shields appear to stop blocking when they have taken damage and are still in use.
MC-156866 – Villagers level from apprentice to journeyman with less experience than shown by XP bar.
MC-157077 – Villagers will not sleep in beds at night.
MC-157208 – Enchanting tables can display a blank enchantment option for hoes.
MC-157303 – Villagers wake up and seek a new "home" (bed) while living in a 2 high house.
MC-157436 – Player position is constantly reset when clicking with a sword or trident onto the ground in Creative mode.
MC-158542 – Iron golems do not stop spawning.
MC-158807 – Players can remove cursed enchantments on items by repairing them in inventory.
MC-158906 – After sleeping in a bed, players are not positioned at the center of a block.
MC-159300 – Villagers that have been infected by a zombie can despawn, even if they have been traded with.
MC-159371 – Leads are incorrectly positioned on bees.
MC-159500 – Hostile mobs attacking bees also cause the bees to attack players.
MC-159502 – Bees do not avoid water, killing themselves.
MC-159672 – Vex will occasionally try to attack the player in Creative or Spectator.
MC-159773 – Shulkers can teleport to non-solid faces, and do not teleport to some solid faces.
MC-159820 – 3rd person reverse trident bug.
MC-159918 – Foxes do not run from polar bears.
MC-159963 – Minecarts can break turtle eggs.
MC-160020 – Pulled bow changes its texture to the unpulled one when the durability changes.
MC-160053 – Enderman keeps following the player after becoming neutral/passive.
MC-160250 – Naturally-generated villagers are not pathfinding toward their POI; POI detection range is too small.
MC-160520 – Bees' wandering AI tries to go through three-way corners.
MC-160704 – Acute accent is rendered too small.
MC-160897 – Dropping an item using the drop key displays the hand animation but dropping items from within the inventory does not.
MC-160902 – Arm swings when right-clicking on full minecart.
MC-160959 – Clicking onto a bed in daytime does not grant the advancement "Sweet Dreams".
MC-161128 – Piston head left behind when base is quickly broken and replaced.
MC-161156 – Silverfish and endermites appear black on soul sand.
MC-161259 – Using the carrot on a stick while riding a pig plays no hand animation.
MC-161917 – Particles do not render underwater, behind water or other transparent blocks.
MC-161969 – Casting issue: adding ender eyes to End portal frames causes particles to lose precision.
MC-162340 – World border is rendered behind transparent blocks.
MC-162346 – Clouds do not render behind transparent particles.
MC-162385 – The background of /title text does not fade with the text.
MC-162665 – Food does not drop from a campfire when it is put out with a shovel or water bottle.
MC-162881 – Composter does not display particles when being fed composting items through a hopper.
MC-163286 – /setblock ~ ~ ~ air destroy does not destroy liquids.
MC-163333 – Plains houses and decorations can generate in taiga villages.
MC-163655 – Fire cannot be targeted like other blocks.
MC-163910 – Hand animation sometimes plays for a second time with high ping.
MC-163918 – Bees not animating their pollen gathering.
MC-163921 – Placing a block while looking at redstone ore plays no sound.
MC-163950 – Ice bordering water causes z-fighting issues from a distance.
MC-164111 – Transparent falling blocks make entities and block entities invisible.
MC-164129 – Ender dragon inner hitboxes are rendered offset by approximately 200 blocks.
MC-164158 – Lava does not emit smoke during rainfall.
MC-164184 – Breaking a shulker box with contents in Creative mode drops the block at an incorrect location.
MC-164205 – Endermen do not spawn in the End if difficulty is set to Easy.
MC-164224 – Non updated lava layers that rarely generate in Nether wastes, crimson forests, and warped forests.
MC-164233 – "Skilled" villagers without job site do not get precedence over unemployed villagers.
MC-164435 – Stream sounds do not loop properly.
MC-164446 – Tags do not load if one of their values is invalid, causing all data packs to unload.
MC-164569 – Random "Block Broken" in jungle.
MC-164692 – Entering a boat does not play hand animation.
MC-164948 – Entity shadow renders through transparent blocks.
MC-165518 – Village houses desert_temple_1 and plains_temple_4 have no floor at entrance.
MC-165549 – Arm swing animation is still played when drinking an item.
MC-165669 – Hand animation is played when using a spawn egg while aiming at block through a mob.
MC-165734 – Minecarts with furnace still display a hand animation with incompatible items when not on a rail.
MC-165958 – Clouds, transparent blocks, and other semi-transparent textures do not render behind semi-transparent entities.
MC-165962 – Some transparent items make transparent blocks and beacon beams not render behind them when dropped (again).
MC-165966 – Shadows do not render behind experience orbs.
MC-165968 – Transparent blocks do not render behind experience orbs.
MC-166135 – Bees inside a nest or hive do not grow up or get their breeding timer reset.
MC-166188 – Bees still hitting player after death.
MC-166245 – No sound for shearing snow golems.
MC-166246 – Skeleton horses cannot be leashed.
MC-166260 – Light from fire that has gone out lingers at the border of chunks.
MC-166269 – Wet wolves become black for an instant after shaking off water.
MC-166276 – Thrown items and blocks sometimes appear black for an instant.
MC-166292 – Subtitle from foxes eating chorus fruit: "Player teleports".
MC-166296 – Mobs picking up and equipping items does not play the equipping sound.
MC-166297 – Items do not render behind experience orbs.
MC-166346 – Transparent blocks do not render properly with tripwire above.
MC-166358 – Inconsistency with sounds of dispensers using shears.
MC-166398 – Mobs do not render behind experience orbs.
MC-166413 – Item frame turns black for an instant when being placed.
MC-166524 – Trying to dye a sheep with the same color as sheep displays hand animation.
MC-166576 – Player head shakes when loading world in F5.
MC-166593 – Zombie villagers in zombie villages are not persistent.
MC-166717 – Block outlines and hitboxes render behind all translucent blocks and clouds.
MC-166718 – Mobs no longer suffocate inside of soul sand, farmland, or grass paths.
MC-166725 – Entity hitboxes render behind all translucent blocks and clouds.
MC-166729 – Fishing lines render behind water, other transparent blocks, and clouds.
MC-166764 – Villagers generated during world generation have a lower follow range than villagers spawned by other means.
MC-166895 – Underlines in written book's text disappear with subtitles.
MC-166921 – Incorrect bow animation when eating.
MC-166980 – Bees become stuck wandering to the northwest after completing a task, or randomly in large numbers.
MC-167039 – Right-clicking on a spawner with the same mob spawn egg as in spawner plays hand animation.
MC-167042 – Casting issue: campfire embers are generated at a point that loses precision at high coordinates.
MC-167043 – Enchantment glint only applies to the handle of shields with banners.
MC-167044 – Casting issue: enchanting table book does not open for the player at high distances in some cases.
MC-167046 – Casting issue: lava ember particles and lava popping sounds lose precision on creation at high coordinates.
MC-167047 – Casting issue: TNT blocks ignited by other explosions lose precision at high coordinates.
MC-167076 – Seagrass, tall seagrass, and sea pickles do not obscure direct sunlight when waterlogged.
MC-167077 – Foxes sleep on top of honey blocks, even in broad daylight.
MC-167090 – Entity hitboxes are rendered behind item frames.
MC-167091 – Casting issue: TNT blocks ignited by other explosions lose precision at high coordinates.
MC-167103 – Casting issue: mob spawning loses precision at high coordinates.
MC-167195 – Bees anger toward players in Survival when killed in one hit.
MC-167273 – Some special rendering blocks render in front of entity hitboxes.
MC-167342 – Structure block outline renders behind clouds and translucent blocks.
MC-167359 – Items are bright for a brief moment after being broken.
MC-167362 – Item frames are bright for a brief moment when placed.
MC-167386 – Binding hotbar hotkeys to mouse thumb button will not interact the way it should.
MC-167421 – Casting issue: minecarts with chests are generated in the wrong positions in abandoned mineshafts at high coordinates.
MC-167432 – Ctrl + middle-click on lectern does not copy written book.
MC-167447 – Wrong RenderStateShard name.
MC-167512 – Glass in the hand is rendered differently depending on the "Clouds" setting.
MC-167554 – Enchantment glint on shields is rendered incorrectly.
MC-167561 – All players can make a [wolf] stand up or sit down.
MC-167692 – Infested blocks do not spawn silverfish when blown up.
MC-167971 – Casting issue: Particles emitted by redstone repeaters lose precision at high coordinates.
MC-167989 – Spawn point is not set when monsters are nearby.
MC-168139 – Enchanted armor pieces worn by entities lose their enchantment glint when looked at from certain angles.
MC-168311 – Fishing line disappears when in front of entities and block entites.
MC-168319 – Fireworks sometimes do not explode when launched at the edge or under a block.
MC-168384 – NBT-Tag Silent:1b does not work for bees.
MC-168485 – Chests do not render behind experience orbs.
MC-168540 – Threads created by net.minecraft.Util.backgroundExecutor() have misleading names.
MC-168673 – Iron golems congregate all in the same place in some villages.
MC-168675 – Settings that update after closing the video settings menu do not if the fullscreen setting is not changed.
MC-168748 – Rapid cod spawning and despawning causing performance issues.
MC-168772 – Experience orbs can crush turtle eggs.
MC-169008 – Using End portal in the Nether teleports the player to the End, but at the same coordinates the player was in the Nether.
MC-169319 – Letters ä, ë, ï, ö, ü, ÿ are included in the default font, but the alone umlaut/diaeresis (¨) is not.
MC-169514 – Tamed parrots cannot be renamed unless they are flying.
MC-169533 – Asymmetrical walls in snowy_cartographer_house_1.
MC-169679 – Composters do not make sounds when fed by hoppers.
MC-169683 – Bells cannot be hung from certain blocks that have a wide enough base.
MC-169692 – Entity shadow floats slightly above the ground.
MC-169715 – Misrotated block in snowy_small_house_3.
MC-169764 – Fish flopping sound shows "Footsteps" subtitles.
MC-169832 – Transparent item models have inconsistent rendering when a glowing entity is present.
MC-169869 – Mooshroom using incorrect texture in Programmer Art.
MC-169891 – Zombie reinforcements can spawn in regardless if light level is higher than 9 in Nether (Hard difficulty).
MC-169965 – Potion effect timers for higher levels can remain at 0:00 after the higher level has run out if multiple levels of the same effect were applied in descending order.
MC-169975 – Highlight players (spectators) key does not affect any players other than the player.
MC-170075 – "Online play is not rated" checkbox has no outline when focused.
MC-170128 – Cannot build an EntityType without a datafixer due to an IllegalArgumentException.
MC-170242 – Asymmetrical walls in taiga_medium_house_4.
MC-170273 – Diamond swords use the wrong pallet.
MC-170274 – Pickaxe textures are inconsistent.
MC-170470 – At snowy_library_1, the snow block is placed next to the window, which causes ugly visual effect.
MC-170556 – Hoe textures are inconsistent.
MC-170584 – Structure taiga_meeting_point_2 from zombie villages has 1 misrotated log.
MC-170591 – Misrotated floor blocks in desert_tool_smith_1 basement.
MC-170612 – Villagers spawned by meeting points have frozen AI and do not move when that chunk is freshly generated.
MC-170773 – Recipe book and filtering craftable do not stay open for blast furnace and smoker when (re)loading the world.
MC-170836 – Cannot set the top of soul sand on fire.
MC-171618 – Players wearing armor take less damage from burning when standing in fire under certain conditions.
MC-171756 – Weird fire bug.
MC-171939 – Many mobs are placed incorrectly in the statistics.
MC-171969 – Fall damage is negated when stepping up after falling.
MC-172025 – Several misrotated blocks at snowy_medium_house_2.
MC-172307 – All loaded tileticks instantly run in the first tick after loading the chunk.
MC-172517 – Walls do not behave normally when next to soul sand.
MC-172524 – Letters of name tag render inconsistently when sneaking (within the same name tag).
MC-172531 – Small mobs get stuck in fence corners.
MC-172650 – Ice side texture does not appear underwater.
MC-173115 – Mobs can spawn inside of wither roses.
MC-173367 – Arrows are floating in midair after being pushed by piston.
MC-173732 – Fire and soul fire do not have loot tables.
MC-174071 – Roof of savanna_mason_1 is cut off.
MC-174072 – Structure savanna_temple_2 contains one misrotated block.
MC-174073 – Two misrotated blocks in savanna_small_house_5.
MC-174075 – Misrotated block in savanna_butchers_shop_1.
MC-174076 – Inconsistent rotation of logs under windows in savanna_small_house_4.
MC-174078 – Three misrotated blocks in snowy_armorer_house_2.
MC-174079 – Misrotated block at snowy_weapon_smith_1.
MC-174082 – Three misrotated blocks in snowy_small_house_2.
MC-174083 – Three misrotated blocks in snowy_butchers_shop_1.
MC-174234 – Village structure snowy_masons_house_1 has two misrotated blocks.
MC-174568 – Rail updates are 3–4x times laggier since 1.13.
MC-174648 – Recipe book button of crafting interfaces cannot be unhighlighted.
MC-174790 – Mob on turtle eggs causes the game to crash.
MC-174932 – Right-to-left text appears left-to-right after game start until language is changed.
MC-175171 – Fishing bobber can get stuck on a ledge when being reeled in.
MC-175201 – Misrotated floor block in savanna_small_house_1, savanna_small_house_2, savanna_small_house_3, and savanna_small_house_7.
MC-175634 – Fishing line disconnects while drinking.
MC-176104 – Dropped compasses always point up.
MC-176640 – Players can set their spawn point inside dangerous blocks.
MC-176644 – Observers do not trigger when a fence connects to a newly grown tree.
MC-177075 – Taking product out of stonecutter produces no subtitle.
MC-177080 – Sounds for traveling through a portal have no subtitle.
MC-177088 – Polar bear step sound does not have subtitles.
MC-177346 – A compass in a mob's hand does not point to correct location if the mob turns.
MC-177712 – Nether portal blocks do not have loot tables.
MC-177873 – Trident and shield holding model is activated when using an item with a right click function in another hand.
MC-178029 – Chunks get scrambled by logging in twice on solo world.
MC-178441 – Endermen do not avoid the wither's skull projectiles.
MC-178570 – When blocking a wither skull with a shield, the player still receives the Wither effect.
MC-178572 – Using a shield triggers model for other poses if respective item is held in the other hand.
MC-178576 – Projectile protection has no effect on wither skulls, unlike ghast fireballs
MC-179309 – Trident animates backward while eating.
MC-179989 – Smithing table and anvil UI does not have "Inventory" title above player inventory.
MC-181108 – Right-to-left text is displayed left-to-right at all times.
MC-181566 – Powered redstone dust only emits particles at the center of the block.
MC-182076 – Horse jumping sound is unused.
MC-182249 – Problems with potted_cactus.json block model file.
MC-182888 – Compasses and clocks work like normal in villager trading GUI.
MC-183249 – Carving mask BitSets created for lower chunk statuses.
MC-183718 – Stronghold End portal can be overwritten by ocean ruins.
MC-185616 – Turtle eggs cannot hatch on red sand.
MC-185949 – Copy "C" in "Click to Copy to Clipboard" is not capitalized.
MC-186353 – The "s" and "m" in "Edit sign message" are uncapitalized.
MC-189570 – Middle mouse button does not work as a hotbar slot in inventory.


== Videos ==


== Trivia ==
This update surpassed 1.14 for hosting the largest addition of new blocks into the Java Edition of the game, adding a total of 74 compared to 69. This record was surpassed by the following update.
Starting with 1.16, all major update version numbers are the same for both the Java and Bedrock editions.
1.16 fixes the most bugs that were existent prior to its development out of any release version, beating 1.8.


== See also ==
Bedrock Edition 1.16.0


== References ==


== Navigation ==