1.16.4 Pre-release 2 (known as 1.16.4-pre2 in the launcher) is the second and final pre-release for Java Edition 1.16.4, released on October 22, 2020, which changes some features related to server, accessibility, splashes, and fixes bugs. This is the final pre-release released in 2020.


== Changes ==


=== General ===
Accounts

When logging in with a Microsoft account, players blocked in that account are now also blocked in the game, and account restrictions are now respected.
Accessibility

A button to open a link to the accessibility guide can now be found in the "Accessibility Options" screen.
Multiplayer

When the server and client version are incompatible, a red message is shown instead of the dark red message.
When multiplayer is disabled, the message displayed now reads, "Multiplayer is disabled. Please check your Microsoft account settings." instead of "Multiplayer is disabled. Please check your launcher settings."
Social interactions

The status of a player is now listed below their name on the social interactions screen.
A new tab is available to filter by blocked players in the social interactions screen.
Chat from blocked players is always hidden.
Realms invites from blocked players are hidden.
Changed and removed the textures of a few UI elements on the social interactions screen.
Splashes

The splashes relating to the Black Lives Matter movement have been added to splashes.txt. These splashes were added to the game via a launcher update during 1.16.2 but were not in splashes.txt. The splashes are:
Black lives matter!
Be anti-racist!
Learn about allyship!
Speak OUT against injustice and UP for equality!
Amplify and listen to BIPOC voices!
Educate your friends on anti-racism!
Support the BIPOC community and creators!
Stand up for equality in your community!


== Fixes ==
11 issues fixed
From 1.16.3

MC-201885 – Divide-by-zero error in the ender dragon entity class can cause a server crash and infinite velocity
From the previous development version

MC-202134 – Opening Social Interactions menu does not update player appearances if the player is in Spectator mode.
MC-202136 – Social Interaction toast icon does not render properly with Programmer Art resource pack.
MC-202137 – Social Interaction screen says "players" for one player.
MC-202143 – Social Interactions search bar does not stay selected when switching tabs, although the cursor remains.
MC-202145 – Opening the Social Interactions menu in a singleplayer world open to LAN after attempting to join an outdated multiplayer server displays the name of the outdated server instead of the name of the current world.
MC-202147 – Cursor in Social Interactions, recipe book, and anvil menu does not blink.
MC-202150 – Slider bar on social menu appears broken.
MC-202155 – Outdated server warn text does not actually exist.
MC-202156 – Social Interactions search box entries can go out of the box.
MC-202157 – Hidden players' X in Social Interactions are not vertically centered.


== Videos ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==