1.3.1 is a major update to Java Edition released on August 1, 2012, which added trading, Adventure mode, new generated structures (jungle and desert pyramids), and new blocks/items including emeralds, book and quills, written books, and tripwire. It also adds ender chests, improved enchanting, and splits the Creative inventory into separate sections. This is the first version to use an internal multiplayer server in singleplayer worlds, which resulted in many broken features. While it was not the only 1.3 release, it was the only one before the snapshots of 1.4.2 started.
A pre-release for 1.3.1 was released on July 30, 2012, though the full release of 1.3.1 is identical to this pre-release.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Wooden slabs

Added all wood types.
Wooden slabs crafted after the update act like wood.
Wooden slabs crafted before the update still act like stone.
 Emerald ore

Drops an emerald.
Only found in the extreme hills biome, but is very rare.
 Ender chest

Crafted by surrounding an eye of ender with 8 pieces of obsidian.
Stores each player's contents across dimensions and all ender chests.
Contents are preserved even if all ender chests are destroyed.
Explosion-resistant.
Emits light and purple particles.
Unless mined using a Silk Touch-enchanted pickaxe, they drop 8 obsidian.
 Sandstone stairs

Crafted in the same pattern as other stairs using sandstone.
 Tripwire hook

String in between needs to be placed manually.
Breaking the string triggers a redstone signal, cutting it using shears doesn't.
Entities like boats, mobs, arrows or players touching the string trigger a redstone signal.
String length cannot exceed 40 blocks.
Crafting recipe: iron ingot on top of a stick on top of a planks.
 Block of emerald

Crafted by putting 9 emeralds on a crafting table.
 Wooden stairs

Added wooden stairs for all kinds of wood.
Adjusted hitbox.
 Wood

Cannot be obtained legitimately.
Shows the side log texture on all 6 sides.


=== Items ===
 Book and quill

Right-click to write on and edit up to 50 pages or read.
Click 'Done' to save the book, 'Sign' to choose a title and finalize the book.
Crafting recipe: 1 ink sac, 1 feather and 1 book in any possible shape.
 Written book

Can only be obtained by signing a book and quill.
Can be sold to villagers.
 Emerald

Used to trade with villagers.
Drops from emerald ore.
Initially intended to be Rubies.
 Golden apple

Has two crafting recipes now.
The new one replaces the gold nuggets with blocks of gold.
Second tier gives the following:
Regeneration IV (0:30)
Resistance (5:00)
Fire Resistance (5:00)
Only second tier glows like enchanted tools.
Has attributes the golden apple had before Java Edition 1.1.


=== World generation ===
 Bonus chest

Optional starting chest on non-hardcore worlds.
Contents: wooden & stone tools, bread, apples, logs, planks and sticks.
Desert villages

Added desert-specific villages.
Desert pyramids

Built out of various kinds of sandstone and wool.
Include hidden chest room and TNT trap, with loot including rotten flesh, bones, iron ingots and gold ingots, diamonds and emeralds.
Jungle temples

Built out of various kinds of cobblestone.
Contain multiple tripwire traps triggering dispensers filled with arrows.
Loot chests include bones, rotten flesh, gold ingots, iron ingots, diamonds and emeralds.


=== Gameplay ===
Adventure mode

Only playable using commands.
Building, destroying blocks, setting things on fire and using buckets is disabled.
Players can only interact with mobs and the environment.
Players can place and take items from a chest, a furnace or a dispenser.
Trading

Using emeralds as currency, villagers offer different trades to players, depending on profession.
There are three kinds of trades: selling, buying and enchanting.
As displayed in the top-most part of the trading GUI, villagers take one or more items or item stacks and give back something.
After trading, villagers sometimes emit purple particles for a few seconds to indicate that their trades changed.
Otherwise unobtainable bottles o' enchanting and chainmail armor can be obtained by trading.


=== Command format ===
/seed

Shows the map seed.
/defaultgamemode

Chooses the gamemode new players start in.
/debug

Enables and disable profiling.
/gamemode

Changes the player's gamemode.
/toggledownfall

Toggles rain and snow
/time

Changes the world time
/give

Gives an item to a player
/xp

Adds experience to a player
/kill

Kills a player
/help

Provides help for commands.


=== General ===
Demo mode

Lasts 5 game days per world.
Options

Chat settings
Change which parts of the chat are shown and how opaque it is.
Toggle chat colors, links being clickable and warning prompts for links.
Option to rebind the command key, which opens the chat with/in the text field.
Snooper settings
Allows users to toggle anonymous data being sent to Mojang.
Shows which data is sent.
Video options
Have to be toggled manually in options.txt for now.
Vertical synchronization.
Fullscreen mode can now be enabled at startup.
Added setting to disable servers offering the player texture packs
Large Biomes world type

Generated as default worlds, but 16× bigger
Beaches look closely to what they looked like in Java Edition Beta 1.7.3 and prior.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
    Log

Can now be placed in 3 different directions.
Placement works like similar to piston placement.
 Furnaces

Can be fueled by wooden tools now.
Return an empty bucket when using lava buckets as fuel now.
 Lava

Now replaces air below Y=11, instead of Y=12.
 Ice

Instead of melting in the Nether, it now disappears.
Can be obtained using Silk Touch-enchanted gear now.
 Glass panes

Can be obtained using Silk Touch-enchanted gear now.
Nether portal

"Leaks" into the Overworld now: depending on difficulty, zombie pigmen rarely spawn in them.
​[more information needed] Slabs and  stairs

Now placed upside-down when placed on the upper half of a block's side.
When placed upside down, rails, pressure plates, levers, doors, torches, redstone torches, repeaters, redstone dust and beds can be placed on them. Redstone dust on these blocks transmits power horizontally and upwards, but not downwards (this also has the side effect of not causing quasi-connectivity). Additionally, redstone torches don't power redstone placed on slabs/stairs above them.
 Leaves

Water slowly drips through them when it's raining.
 Cauldrons

Slowly fill up when it's raining.
 Dispensers

 Minecarts &  boats are now placed if there's rails/water in place.
Instead of dispensing buckets, dispensers now suck in or place water or lava in front of them.
 Gravel

Texture changed from 
 Levers

Can be placed on the underside of blocks.
 Wooden pressure plates

Can be triggered by arrows.
 Pistons

Now take 2 redstone ticks (0.2 seconds) to expand.
 TNT

Depending on difficulty, does different amounts of damage now:
Peaceful: no damage
Easy: ~50% less damage
Normal: same damage as before
Hard: 33 1⁄3% more damage.
 Nether wart

Can now be grown in the Overworld and in the End.
 Signs

Stack up to 16 now.
Crafting now gives 3 signs instead of 1.
 Monster spawners

Added NBT tags to further customize spawned mobs.
Only changeable using map editors or mods.
 Door

Doors being broken by zombies now show their damage.


=== Items ===
Tools

Breaking a block that can be instantly mined by hand while holding a block-breaking tool no longer reduces the tool's durability.
 String

Can now be placed as tripwire.
 Charcoal

Added to the Creative inventory.
 Cocoa beans

Texture changed from 
Can be planted & grown on jungle wood now.
Can be grown instantly using bone meal.
 Cookies

Give a full hunger point now.
 Book

Changed crafting recipe: 3 pieces of paper and one piece of leather in any shape.
 Empty buckets

Stack up to 16 now.


=== Mobs ===
All mobs

Mobs can now spawn on top of all upside down slabs and stairs.
 Pigs

Drop 1-3 porkchops instead of 0-2.
 Slimes

Reduced spawn rate in superflat maps.
 Silverfish

When suffering from Poison potions, they now spawn more silverfish from nearby silverfish blocks more often.
 Creepers

Increased knockback effect.
Become aggressive towards the last mob or player that hit them now.
Become neutral against players again a few seconds after being hit in Creative.
Depending on difficulty, they do less or more damage now:
Easy: ~50% less damage
Normal: same damage as before
Hard: 33 1⁄3% more damage.
 Spiders

Become aggressive towards the last mob or player that hit them now
 Skeletons and  zombies

Become neutral against players again a few seconds after being hit in Creative.
 Endermen

Endermen now stalk the player when aggravated.
 Villagers

Villagers spawned from spawn eggs get a random profession now.


=== Non-mob entities ===
 Boats

Are not broken by lily pads anymore, instead they run straight through the lily pad now, breaking and sometimes dropping it.
When they crash they can sometimes drop themselves.
Are less glitchy and more responsive now.
Increased maximum speed.
When exiting, players are moved from the boat.
When broken by a player, they drop a boat now.
 Minecarts

When on rails, they can be accelerated a bit while sitting in them.
When exiting, players are moved from the minecart.


=== World generation ===
Biomes

Increased the scale and depth of some biomes:

Extreme hills biomes

Now generate with emerald ore.
Occurs up to 8 times per chunk in blobs of 1.
Generates between layers 4 and 31, inclusive.
Jungle trees

Made cocoa beans appear on some small jungle trees


=== Gameplay ===
Breaking

The 1⁄4 second (5 game tick) delay between block breaking has been removed for players in Survival. The player can now instantly mine a large amount of blocks in survival simply by holding destroy if conditions are met.
Creative inventory

There are categorized tabs for various groups of items and blocks.
Added a search tab that is automatically switched to when the chat key is hit.
Added 'Survival Inventory' tab, which shows the full inventory, a 'Destroy item' slot, armor slots including a preview of the player's character and a 2×2 crafting field.
Items can now be deleted from the inventory by shift-clicking them.
Added layered snow block, monster egg blocks (silverfish spawning blocks), end portal frame and all potions.
Now shows potion effects' timers like in Survival.
The player now spawns with an empty inventory in Creative mode.
 Experience collection

Depending on ore type, experience now drops from ores that drop items.
Taking smelted items out of furnaces gives experience now.
Destroying mob spawners gives experience now.
Adjusted experience level progression:
Levels 1–15 cost 17 XP points each
Levels 16–30 cost 3 more XP points than the previous (cost = 17 + (level - 15) * 3)
Levels 31–38 cost 7 more XP points than the previous (cost = 62 + (level - 30) * 7)
 Enchanting

The maximum enchanting level is now 30 and can be reached with only 15 bookshelves.
The 3rd slot shows the most expensive possible enchantment more often.
Increased chances for multiple enchantments at once.
Adjusted enchantments to go with the new maximum level.
Multiplayer

Added option to let LAN friends join SP games.
The player can choose which gamemode players join in and whether they are allowed to use cheats.
Made entities less likely to glitch through blocks.
Added automatic downloading of standard-sized texture packs when joining servers.
Blocks other players are mining now show cracks.
Made server list re-orderable: shift+click or shift+arrow keys move selected servers.
Server list now scans for LAN servers.
Added hardcore difficulty: Players are banned upon death.
Connections are now encrypted to prevent eavesdropping.
Added SRV Record Lookup support.
Different subdomains of one domain can handle different servers via different port numbers.
Service name should be "minecraft"; i.e. "_minecraft._tcp.example.com".
Added & changed many minor things

Individual, stackable items near each other on the ground now become one item stack.
Added shift clicking support to armor slots, brewing stands & enchantment tables.
Made the stars smaller and brighter.
Removed the downwards knockback while drowning.
The "Mojang" splash screen when opening the game appears for 1 instead of 3 seconds now.
The sky color in the End changed.
Blocks now show cracks when destroying them while the GUI is hidden.
The player can now fall 4 blocks without getting hurt (might be a bug as there exist other, higher distances that don't cause damage either).
The cracking particles no longer instantly appear when mining blocks.
The inventory sprites for all blocks now face the top right of the block, instead of the top left.
When riding a minecart that is currently on a rail, using directional keys allows the player to slowly move the minecart in that direction.
Pick Block key

The player now gets the actual block.
The player can now pick paintings, boats, minecarts and mobs, which give them their spawn eggs.
Picking huge mushroom blocks now gives mushrooms.
The player can no longer pick portal blocks.


=== Command format ===
Server commands

Are now more descriptive.
/ban

Added reason parameter.
/kick

Can now contain \n to force a new line.
/tp

Can now be used to teleport to specific coordinates.


=== General ===
Launcher

Includes demo mode. Note: Clicking on demo mode without the game installed does not work, and instead freezes at game updating and does not download.
The "Loading update news" message which appears when the launcher attempts to load the release feed is now styled, rather than the plain html it was prior.
Performance

Reduced CPU, RAM & bandwidth usage.
Accelerated chunk loading.
Decreased lag spike frequency.
Made the Nether less laggy.
Decreased unnecessary world updates.
Made the chat work smoothly even when the server is laggy.
Decreased packets sent between client and server.
Servers

Made singleplayer internally use a multiplayer server.
Decreased world saving intervals.
The server jar now accepts command-line arguments --bonusChest, --demo, --port, --singleplayer, --universe, and --world. The old nogui argument still works for backward compatibility.
Debug screen

Truncated coordinates to 5 fractional digits.
For example, if the player is at X: 11,427,276, instead of the game displaying X: 1.1427276483E7, it now displays X: 11427276.
The Y-coordinate now shows both the feet level and the eye level.
Removed frame rendering time history graph (bottom-left).
3 new values:
ws: Walking speed (constant)
fs: Flying speed (constant)
g: Boolean value, true when the player touches the ground.
Language files

Added tooltips for all types of monster egg blocks and the end portal frame.
Added more descriptive tooltips for different types of tree-related blocks, sandstone and stone bricks.
Localized server command responses.
Added missing commands-related strings.
Added missing double chest GUI caption.
Superflat world type

Respawning in superflat is no longer random.


== Removals ==


=== General ===
Distance effects

The particles from adding an eye of ender to an End portal frame block no longer appear offset if performed at high distances from the world origin.
This is due to the fact that they simply did not appear at all from this snapshot onwards, which is another bug entirely.
This bug resurfaced in Java Edition 19w14a when the aforementioned absent particles bug was fixed.


== Fixes ==
41 bugs fixed

Fixed texture packs in folders not showing their icon and description.
Fixed Man-in-the-middle attack allowing intruders to log in as the player when they visit their server.
Fixed the Open texture pack folder button not working on macOS.
Fixed liquids slowing down flying players.
Fixed blocks with the same id but different data/damage values stacking in Creative inventory.
Fixed boats & minecarts not being one-hit breakable in Creative.
Fixed raw fish, dyes, saddles, potions, milk buckets and tools depleting in Creative.
Fixed water destroying non-solid blocks when breaking them from above.
Fixed Silk touch giving the player only one slab from double slabs.
Fixed redstone updates not propagating through unloaded chunks.
Fixed repeaters getting stuck when loading their chunk.
Fixed tools taking damage when breaking insta-breakable blocks.
Fixed a few misalignments in the item sprite sheet.
Fixed the arrow representing players on held maps being offset.
Fixed being able to duplicate sand, gravel and powered rail.
Fixed placing a piston in front of another powered, but not extended one resulting in a glitched piston with the head's texture on all sides.
Fixed TNT dropping as a resource in Creative mode.
Fixed powering specifically glitched pistons crashing the game.
Fixed the End Portal Frame block not showing as a block in the inventory.
Fixed weather not working correctly in certain biomes.
Fixed Overworld portals above Y=127 not being recognized when leaving the Nether.
Fixed various hacked mob spawners crashing the game.
Fixed thrown splash potions not preserving their type when reloading the world.
Multiplayer only

Fixed arrows scooting up to the top of the block they were shot on.
Fixed endermen not opening their jaws.
Fixed fully charged arrows not showing their particle effect.
Fixed many sounds not playing.
Fixed magma cubes' and slimes' jumping animations not showing.
Fixed thunderstorms not darkening the sky.
Fixed weather not fading in or out.
Fixed enchanted armor and tools not glowing to other players.
Fixed explosions not pushing players back.
Fixed TNT not knocking back players.
Fixed pistons not pushing back players.
Fixed players on minecarts, boats or pigs and spider jockeys not being displayed in the correct location.
Fixed glitchy mob prediction.
Fixed fishing lines not showing.
Fixed sneaking players' nameplates not staying hidden when loading the chunks they are in.
Fixed Unbreaking-enchanted tools sometimes breaking and then re-appearing a few times.
Fixed potion effects losing their graphical effects when traveling between dimensions.
Fixed blocks disappearing when placing them under the player and jumping.


== Videos ==


== Trivia ==
1.3 was a version that held several development-related records, until the development of Java Edition 1.8.
The most snapshots for a major release: 19.
The longest development period, from first snapshot to final release: 111 days.
The longest wait between major releases, with a release 153 days after the release of Java Edition 1.2.1 (later broken by the wait time between Java Edition 1.8 and Java Edition 1.9).
If the player changed their skin after Java Edition 1.8 was released, 1.3.1 would be the oldest version to display that skin change. If the player plays on Java Edition 1.2.5 or older versions they still see the last skin they used before Java Edition 1.8.
1.3 is the last major update to Java Edition without an official name and promotional image.


== References ==


== Navigation ==