15w31a is the first snapshot for Java Edition 1.9, released on July 29, 2015, with a large amount of End-related changes. This is the first snapshot released in 2015.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Chorus plants

Generate in the End.
Can be grown using chorus flowers.
Breaks in quick succession if the supporting chorus plant below is broken.
Drop chorus fruit.
 Chorus flowers

Spawn on the top of the chorus trees.
Break if the supporting block below is broken.
It only drops when mined directly.
Can only be planted on End stone in any dimension.
Has a different texture when it can no longer grow.
 Dragon heads

While worn, the head's mouth opens and closes repeatedly when moving around.
When powered with redstone while placed on solid block, the jaw starts to open and close.
Keeps the mouth position of the exact moment it was unpowered.
 End gateway blocks

A portal block used to transport the player to the new outer regions of the end.
The texture is identical to the End portal block, but the model is that of a full block rather than plane.
The player cannot use pick block or /give to obtain it.
It can only be set by using /setblock.
Naturally generate after killing the dragon and traveling someplace new in the End with it.
Show yellow beacon beam when created and used.
Emits light level of 15.
 End rods

Generate in the End cities.
Placeable horizontally and vertically.
Emits light level of 14.
The model has a little base that is oriented against the block it was placed on.
If placed on top of another rod, then it has the opposite orientation.
Produce white particles.
Used as a lighting source with the same efficacy as torches.
Unlike torches, they are tangible.
Horizontal End rods can be stepped up onto like slabs.
 End stone bricks

Generate in the End cities.
Can be crafted with 4 blocks of End stone.
 Grass paths

Are visually 15/16 block high.
Obtainable by right-clicking grass blocks with a shovel.
This reduces the shovel's durability by one.
Drop dirt, even when using Silk Touch.
Cannot be obtained from the Creative inventory.
But unlike farmland, it can be obtained by using the pick block key in Creative.
 Purpur blocks

Generate in the End cities.
Can be crafted with popped chorus fruit.
 Purpur pillars

Generate in the End cities.
Can be crafted with purpur slabs.
 Purpur slabs

Generate in the End cities.
Can be crafted with purpur blocks.
 Purpur stairs

Generate in the End cities.
Can be crafted with purpur blocks.
 Structure blocks

Only placable via /setblock.
Can be used with NBT parameters (/setblock or /blockdata).
GUI is only used by Mojang employees.
Have a letter on the texture based on its mode.


=== Items ===
 Spectral arrows

The tip is gold colored, but just in the item model.
Show mob and player outlines in their respective team color when hit – even when invisible.
Tag for entities to disable outlines. ​[more information needed]
Tag to force outline: {Glowing:1b}.
The glowing is a status effect.
Crafted by surrounding an arrow with 4 glowstone dust.
Yields 2 spectral arrows.
 Tipped arrows

Arrows tipped with potions.
14 new arrow types in total.
Each differently tipped arrow is available in the Creative inventory, just like enchanted books.
Corresponding effect is applied on hit.
 Beetroots

Restore 1 ().
Spawn naturally in villages.
Can be used to craft beetroot soup.
Can also be used to craft rose red dye.
 Beetroot seeds

Used to grow beetroot.
 Beetroot soup

Restores 6 ().
Crafted from 6 beetroots and a bowl.
 Chorus fruits

Obtained from chorus plants.
Can be eaten even if the player is not hungry, similar to golden apples.
Teleports the player to a random nearby location when eaten (like an enderman or a shulker).
Does not heal hunger points if the hunger bar is full.
Otherwise it heals 4 ().
Can be cooked in the furnace to obtain popped chorus fruits.
 Popped chorus fruits

Obtained from cooking chorus fruit.
Used to craft purpur blocks.
Cannot be eaten.
 Shulker spawn eggs

Used to spawn a shulker.
Purple with darker purple spots.


=== Mobs ===
General

Mobs have a 5% chance to spawn left-handed, through the new LeftHanded boolean tag.
Mobs able to hold items hold them according to their dominant hand.
 Shulkers

Short for "Shell Lurker".
Hostile mobs with the appearance of a purple block.
Only spawn on the ground or at the walls of End cities when they first generate.
When attacking, they open their shell with a spinning animation, revealing the creature inhabiting.
The creature looks like a little white cube with big eyes.
Its attack consists of shooting projectiles.
The projectiles chase the player until the projectile is out of range.
They can only move along one of the three grid axes at a time and on integer steps.
This means they can move only via taxicab geometry.
Projectiles can be knocked away by attacking them.
Getting hit by a projectile causes 2 hearts of damage and inflicts the Levitation status effect.
They take more damage while their shell is open.
Their shells are considered armor, and bounce arrows off.
It has an idle animation, where it opens its shells a little to peak through.
Can be pushed by pistons, and can exist only on coordinates that are integers (except if they are on minecarts).
Can teleport like an enderman.
Sometimes does this while being attacked or placed in unusual circumstances:
Removing its support block.
Pushing it into a non-air block (except piston heads).
Pushing a non-air block into its position (except piston heads).
Is one of the few entities (apart from boats and minecarts) that can be stood upon.
It even displaces the player properly during its attacking and idle animations.


=== World generation ===
End cities

Generate on the new outer End islands.
Dungeon-type structure fashioned like a branching tower made of End stone and many of the new blocks.
Resemble a tree house.
Generate with shulkers in it.
End ships

Can generate up in the air, right next to an End city.
Always generate sailing away from what appears to be a pier.
Composed of many of the same materials as the End city.
Generate with shulkers in it.
Have a beacon set to Speed, a brewing stand with potions of Healing, and other loot.
 Chorus trees

Tree-like arrangements of the new chorus plant and chorus flower blocks.
Generate on the outer End islands
The whole structure is destroyed when the bottom-most block is destroyed, like cacti.
Can be farmed by planting the chorus fruit flowers that come from the top of the plants.
Unlike cacti, chorus plants do not require the supporting block to be below it, but rather adjacent.
This allows the structure to grow around obstacles, like other plants.
 End gateways

Small structures consisting of an End gateway block and two little bulbs of bedrock, at both the bottom and the top.
Are an alternative way of traveling to the outer End islands, without having to build or fly all the way over there.
Since the bulbs of bedrock only leave a one block slit on the horizontal plane, it is only accessible by throwing ender pearls at it, or by riding pigs, boats or minecarts.
The player is teleported to somewhere on the outer End islands.
The final location of the player depends on what angle they entered or at what angle the ender pearl was thrown at.
One gateway is created for each dragon kill.
Up to 20 gateways are possible to create this way.
Gateways spawn in a radius around the End portal.
Another gateway is created every time the player teleports to a new location.
The created gateway is linked to the original, so the player has a way back.


=== Command format ===
NBT format

Added tags HandItems, ArmorItems, HandDropChances, and ArmorDropChances to Living.
Added tags HandItems and ArmorItems to ArmorStand.
Added tag Glowing to Entity.
Added tag Team to LivingBase.
Added tag DragonPhase to EnderDragon
Added entity Shulker, child of SnowMan.
Added entity ShulkerBullet, child of Entity.
Added entity DragonFireball, which extends FireballBase and has no unique tags.
Added entities TippedArrow and SpectralArrow, children of Arrow.
Added block EndGateway, child of TileEntity.
Added block Structure, child of TileEntity.
Added item tag Potion, child of tag.


=== Gameplay ===
Dominant hand option

An option for players to change their dominant hand on their player model.
Under "Skin Customization".
Changes the orientation of the offhand slot in the hotbar (left often suits right-hand players better and vice versa).
Dual wielding

Players can now use both hands at the same time to do different actions, with the left and right mouse buttons.
For example, if a player has a pickaxe in their main hand and a torch in their other hand, right clicking places the torch.
This happens because a pickaxe lacks a right click use, and therefore the game tries to then treat the other item as if it's being right clicked.
The player cannot click both buttons at the same time.
This is achieved through an extra inventory slot called the "offhand" slot.
Pressing F (by default) switches whatever item is selected in the hotbar with the item in the offhand (including no item).
The offhand slot is displayed next to the hotbar when it's not empty (left for right-hand players and vice versa).
It's also available in the inventory screen.
Only the main hand can be used for attacking.
Even bows can't be used in the offhand.
Bows can be used when something else is in the offhand.
Arrows in the offhand take priority over arrows in the rest of the inventory slots.
The offhand model is invisible in first person view, while it's empty.
Some attributes and enchantments apply to the offhand item, while others do not.
Status effects

Levitation
Received when the player is hit by shulker projectiles.
Makes player involuntarily float high into the air.
Can be used to get to higher places.
Listed as a negative effect, due to the potential to kill from fall damage.
Higher levels of Levitation result in faster floating, except for the last two:
Level 255 does nothing.
Level 254 results in slow fall (similar to lunar gravity).
Glowing
Received when players or mobs are hit by spectral arrows.
Makes player's outline glow, seen even through non-transparent blocks.
The outline includes the models of the currently held items.
Listed as a negative effect, because it prevents players from hiding from other players.
It becomes colored differently if the player is part of a team, to match its team color.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Dead bushes

Now drop anywhere between 0–2 sticks when broken without shears.
Doors

Changed the shading on acacia, birch, dark oak and jungle doors.
Fire 

The block states flip and alt were removed, and the integer state upper was reimplemented as the byte state up.
This reduced the number of states representing fire from 3072 to 512.
Glass panes and iron bars

Are now 2×2 pixels in footprint if no blocks connect to them.
This is compared to the big cross configuration that was the default.
Pressure plates

Now have a slightly thinner item model.
Redstone wire

Model was changed somewhat, resulting in subtle appearance differences.
Before:                      
After:                     
Stairs

Are now rotated 90° in the inventory.
Trapdoors

No longer require supporting blocks.
Therefore they can be moved by pistons freely.
An open trapdoor may be climbed like a ladder if it is directly above one and on the same side of the block.


=== Items ===
Bows

The bow in the hotbar now shows an animation for drawing back an arrow.
Arrows in the off hand are prioritized over arrows in the rest of the inventory slots.
Ender pearls

Can now be thrown in Creative mode.
Fishing rods

Casting fishing rods now has an animation in the hotbar/inventory.
Item models for chest-like blocks

Unlike other blocks, chests, trapped chests and ender chests have their item model rotated, to have the front face in view of the player.
This made it easier to distinguish between trapped and regular chests while being held, since only their front face is different.
Maps

Now display as a mini map when held in the off hand, or if the offhand slot is occupied.
The (old) large version is visible only when held in the dominant hand with both hands-free.
Potions

Mixed potions' colors now blend.
Numeric IDs are no longer used. Instead, a "Potion" tag is used.
e.g. /give @s minecraft:potion 1 0 {Potion:"minecraft:swiftness"}
Splash potions now have a separate data value and ID name and can be created from all potions, including water bottles.
Added Mundane, Thick and Awkward potions to the Creative inventory.
Glowstone dust or redstone can no longer be added to extended or tier-II potions, respectively.
Most recipes for potion of Weakness were removed; only brewing from a water bottle remains.
Potion of Slowness can no longer be brewed from a potion of Fire Resistance.
Potion of Harming can no longer be brewed from a potion of Water Breathing.
Splash potions now have the same duration as drinkable potions.


=== Mobs ===
Chickens

Can be led and bred with melon seeds, pumpkin seeds, and beetroot seeds, in addition to regular seeds.
Ender dragons

Similar to the one on Legacy Console Edition.
The dragon can be re-spawned indefinitely by creating a creeper face configuration out of clay in the End.
Subsequent dragons spawn new gateways, but don't drop XP or create new dragon eggs.
The dragon AI and attacks has been changed:
Breathes fire/purple particles on players and mobs, while on top of the portal.
Drops fireballs on top of the player.
Defends the obsidian pillars more, the further the fight progresses.
The dragon flies and stops over the portal sometimes, only then can the last blow be dealt.
Endermen

Remain aggravated towards the player despite being in contact with water.
Drop the block they were holding when killed.
Pigs

Can be led and bred with potatoes and beetroots, in addition to carrots.
Skeletons

Have an animation for lifting up and drawing back their bow.
Villagers

Farmer villagers now harvest beetroot.


=== Non-mob entities ===
Armor stands

Can now be summoned to dual wield with commands in Creative.
Projectiles

Slightly altered the path of projectiles.


=== World generation ===
The End

A set amount of differently-sized obsidian pillars are arranged in a circular fashion.
The tallest pillars have iron bars around their ender crystal to deflect projectiles.
The exit portal is pre-generated at the center of the island, but without the dragon egg and portal blocks.
Now generates a great amount of islands in every direction from the main island, though separated from it in all directions by an empty gap of about 1,000 blocks.
Mini islands generate between the center and main islands.
End islands and mini End islands have chorus trees spread throughout them.
The Nether

Removed the fog in the Nether.
Villages

Farms now include beetroot crops.


=== Command format ===
NBT format

Tag Equipment (under Living) has become deprecated.
Tag DropChances (under Living) has become deprecated.


=== Gameplay ===
Crosshair

No longer shows the crosshair in 3rd person view.
Inventory

Rearranged the Survival inventory and the Creative "Survival tab" to accommodate for the new offhand slot.
Unified the orientation of many items in the inventory.
Status effects

Status effects icons are now displayed on the HUD on the right hand corner, instead of just in the inventory (similar to Pocket Edition).
They are ordered by the time of infliction from right to left.
Positive effects are on the top row and negative effects on the bottom row.
Effects that are about to run out, blink.
They blink faster when they are closer to running out and start fading away.


=== General ===
Attributes

CustomNameVisible:true makes the name tag on mobs show in the same way as on players.
Entities can now be summoned straight to teams: {team="TeamName"}.
DropChances and Equipment tags are no longer used.
ArmorItems, HandItems, ArmorDropChances and HandDropChances are used instead.
Bosses

Proper support for multiple bosses' health bars, so they show at the same time without obstructing each other.
Damage tooltips

Items can damage differently based on where they are placed to (main hand, offhand, armor slots).
Death messages

Death messages now are displayed on the player's death screen as well as in the chat.
Models

Different models/textures can be used for each different damage values, item states, and whether the item is held in a different hand.
This works on compasses, clocks, and anything that can have a durability bar.
It also contains additional tags for bows and fishing rods.
Models can be put together based on block state attributes, such as fences.
As a result, the vanilla set of block models was reduced by almost 300.
Block model JSON is now strict: comments and quote-less identifiers are not allowed.
display tag defaults have changed, and the thirdperson and firstperson tags were replaced with thirdperson_righthand, thirdperson_lefthand, firstperson_righthand, and firstperson_lefthand.
parent and elements tags can coexist now, though the top level elements tag overwrites all former ones.
UV is now optional, and if not supplied it automatically generates based on the element's position.
Options

Removed the Broadcast Settings section, as well as Twitch integration as a whole.
Removed Super Secret Settings and Alternate Blocks from video settings.
Resource packs

Updated resource pack pack_formatto 2 as the following has changed:
Changes in the model system, such as item tags, multipart, and changes to display tags.
Older resource packs require user acknowledgment to use.
Structure data

Now comes from /assets/structures.


== Fixes ==
13 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.9

MC-438 – Ender pearl can't be used in creative mode.
MC-1537 – Sometimes doors in strongholds are misplaced.
MC-1663 – Dying while having a GUI window open doesn't make the death screen appear.
MC-1956 – Arms misplaced in skeletons with a bow.
MC-2768 – Ladder bug with trapdoors.
MC-4474 – Boss health bar temporarily viewable after respawn and loading another world.
MC-5404 – Name Tags/XP Orbs/Splash Potions are angled in third-person mode.
MC-42841 – Incorrect Creative instant health damage value.
MC-47526 – Ender Crystal entity spawning 1 block too low.
MC-56268 – Breaking the bedrock below an ender crystal (in the End) creates performance drops, rapidly flickering light.
MC-68062 – Boss health bar only visible when looking at boss.
MC-69320 – Data tag output by /entitydata and /blockdata contains too many commas.
MC-75082 – End music will stop every time the ender dragon loads out of view.


== Videos ==


== Trivia ==
Before 18w43a, 15w31a holds the record as having the most content in one developmental release, having nearly twice as much content as Java Edition 1.4.2 had in October 2012.
The previous record was held by 13w36a for Java Edition 1.7.2.
15w31a was previously removed from the launcher for some time, but was added back in September 2018.


== Footnotes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==