1.0.0 (labeled 1.0 in the launcher) is the second and last release of the Adventure Update, and the first full version of the game. It was released on November 18, 2011, during MINECON 2011, marking the game as officially released after two and a half years (916 days) of development. This version adds brewing, enchanting, the End, Hardcore mode, breeding, and more. It is the last version of Minecraft Notch developed before he gave the creative development position to Jens Bergensten.
Initially named "Beta 1.9", Mojang instead opted to release this update under the name "Minecraft 1.0.0", but this decision was made after development versions tagged as Beta 1.9 were already released, so all pre-releases for this version are labeled as "Beta 1.9".
A build of this version made specifically for showcase at MINECON 2011 exists, published inside a password-protected (password of the original file: boxpig41) 7z file called tominecon.7z, which differs from the release build by one line of code to fix an authentication bug caused by parsing the server ID as decimal, instead of hexadecimal. The file was put up on the assets.minecraft.net file server before the Mojang employees flew from Sweden to the USA so that they could access a build of 1.0.0 from there before the official release of the version. A decoy version of the same file that contained a secret video and a bunch of useless data to match the file size of the original replaced the original file on the same file server, however. (password of the decoy version: thespicemustflow)


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Brewing stand

Used to brew potions.
Emits light level of 1.
Crafted with a blaze rod and 3 cobblestone.

 Cauldron

Can be filled with a water bucket.
Holds 3 water bottles.
Crafted with 7 iron ingots.

 Dragon egg

Is a gravity-affected block.
Can be obtained only once per world by defeating the ender dragon.
Can be picked up by placing a non-full block, such as a torch, under a block and breaking it.
Teleports when you try to mine it.
 Enchantment table

Used to enchant tools, weapons, and armor.
Crafted with books, diamonds, and obsidian.

 End portal block

When an entity makes contact with it, they teleport into the End or back to the Overworld respectively.
At most 12 eyes of ender to activate.
Gives off a light level of 15.
 End portal frame

Generates in strongholds.
Used to generate End portals when activated.
Cannot be broken in Survival mode.
Gives off a light level of 1.
 End stone

Generates in the End dimension.
Cannot be destroyed by the ender dragon.
 Lily pad

Spawn in swamps.
Can only be placed on water.
 Mycelium

Generates in mushroom island biomes.
 Nether brick

Generates in Nether fortresses.
 Nether brick fence

Crafted with nether brick.

 Nether brick stairs

Crafted with nether brick.


=== Items ===
 Blaze powder

Can be used to craft eyes of ender and magma cream.
Ingredient for brewing potions.
Crafted from blaze rods.

 Blaze rod

Drops from blazes.
Ingredient to brewing potions.
 Eye of ender

Activates ender portal frames.
Can be used to find strongholds.
Crafted from blaze powder and ender pearls.

 Fermented spider eye

Ingredient for brewing potions.
Crafted from brown mushroom, sugar and spider eye.

 Ghast tear

Drops from ghasts.
Ingredient for brewing potions.
 Glass bottle

Can be used to collect water.
Crafted from glass.

 Glistering melon

Used to brew potions of Healing.
Crafted with gold nuggets and 1 melon slice.

 Gold nugget

Drops from zombie pigmen.
Crafted with gold ingot.

 Magma cream

Ingredient for brewing potions.
Crafted from blaze powder and slimeball.

Music Discs

 11 by C418
 blocks by C418
 chirp by C418
 far by C418
 mall by C418
 mellohi by C418
 stal by C418
 strad by C418
 ward by C418
They can be found in dungeon chests.
They can be obtained when a creeper is killed by a skeleton.
  Nether wart

Generates naturally in Nether fortresses.
Can be farmed only in the Nether.
Can be used for brewing.
 Water bottle

A glass bottle filled with water.
A required base ingredient to brew any potion.
 Potions

 Awkward Potion
It is brewed from nether wart and water bottle.
 Mundane Potion
It is brewed from redstone dust, magma cream, sugar, glistering melon slice, spider eye, ghast tear, or blaze powder and a water bottle.
 Thick Potion
It is brewed from glowstone dust and water bottle.
 Potion of Swiftness
It is brewed from awkward potion and sugar.
Provides speed when used.
 Potion of Slowness
It is brewed from potion of swiftness and fermented spider eye.
Provides slowness when used.
 Potion of Strength
It is brewed from awkward potion and blaze powder.
Provides strength when used.
 Potion of Weakness
It is brewed from fermented spider eye and water bottle.
Provides weakness when used.
 Potion of Healing
It is brewed from awkward potion and glistering melon slice.
Provides instant health when used.
 Potion of Harming
It is brewed from potion of healing and fermented spider eye.
Provides instant damage when used.
 Potion of Regeneration
It is brewed from awkward potion and ghast tear.
Provides regeneration when used.
 Potion of Fire Resistance
It is brewed from awkward potion and magma cream.
Provides fire resistance when used.
 Potion of Poison
It is brewed from awkward potion and spider eye.
Provides poison when used.
 Spider eye

Drop from spiders.
Restores 2 () hunger.
Give Poison when eaten.
Ingredient for brewing potion of poisons.
 Splash potions

 Splash Water Bottle
 Splash Awkward Potion
 Splash Mundane Potion
 Splash Thick Potion
 Potion of Swiftness
 Potion of Slowness
 Potion of Strength
 Potion of Weakness
 Potion of Healing
 Potion of Harming
 Potion of Regeneration
 Potion of Fire Resistance
 Potion of Poison
Created by brewing potion with gunpowder.
Has an area of effect when thrown.


=== Mobs ===
 Baby chicken

It can be bred by feeding two parents with wheat.
 Baby cow

It can be bred by feeding two parents with wheat.
 Baby pig

It can be bred by feeding two parents with wheat.
 Baby sheep

It can be bred by feeding two parents with wheat.
 Baby wolf

Baby wolves can only be spawned through map editors and NBT editing.
 Blaze

Is a hostile mob.
May spawn naturally in Nether fortresses in groups of 2 or 3.
May also spawn from monster spawners in Nether fortress.
A blaze attacks by floating upward and shooting fireballs at its target in volleys of three at a time.
It can also attack its target in melee range with its spinning rods.
Immune to fire damage.
Weak to water and snowballs.
 Ender dragon

Boss mob.
Spawns only once in the End.
Has 200HP × 100.
The dragon can pass through all blocks and destroys most of them.
A "Boss health" bar appears on the middle top part of the screen, in the same purple hue as the ender dragon.
When killed, now leaves behind an exit portal with the dragon egg sitting on top to return the player to their spawn point.
 Magma cube

Is a hostile mob found in the Nether.
Behaves similarly to a slime, but is fireproof, jumps higher and less often, and deals more damage.
 Mooshroom

Spawns in mushroom islands.
Can be milked using buckets to get milk.
Can be milked using bowls to get mushroom stew.
Shearing a mooshroom drops 5 red mushrooms and turns the mooshroom into a cow, emitting a smaller version of the explosion particle.
The mushrooms do not grow back.
Can be bred with wheat .
 Snow golem

Is a buildable passive mob.
Are created by placing two snow blocks and a pumpkin on top.
Throws snowballs at monsters, which provokes them into attacking it.
It also either produces a trail of snow.
 Villagers

Spawn in villages.
Have 5 main professions (numbered 0, 1, 2, 3, 4); other profession numbers appear as a green-robed unnamed villager.
Share the same AI as pigs; however, they do not flee when attacked.


=== Non-mob entities ===
 Ender crystal

Sits atop of a block of bedrock.
It is diamond shaped, with 2 cubes spinning on their axis with a point at the center.
Fires a healing beam at the ender dragon when within range.
Can be destroyed with a melee or hit with an arrow, causing an explosion.
They appear on all obsidian pillars in the End.


=== World generation ===
Frozen ocean

Generates rarely across the edges of ice plains.
Identical to the ocean biome but with snowfall, ice, lower temperature and slightly greater height variation.
Frozen river

Generates where rivers form in ice plains.
Identical to the river biome but with snowfall, ice and lower temperature.
Ice plains

Generates in large blobs that are 4x larger than a normal biome.
Contains sparse oak trees where grass generates underneath.
Ice mountains

An unused variant of ice plains that is completely inaccessible without modding.
Has the same terrain as extreme hills.
Mushroom island

Generates in 1 in 100 spaces in oceans.
Has a surface of mycelium blocks with huge mushrooms scattered across.
No hostile mobs spawn in it.
While mostly generating in the middle of oceans, mushroom islands can also rarely generate connected to other land and even be fully landlocked.
Mushroom island shore

A variant of the mushroom island biome that generates where oceans and mushroom islands meet.
No hostile mobs spawn in them.
Has the same base height as oceans but has a much flatter sea bed.
Nether fortress

Is a large structure found in the Nether, consisting of bridges, corridors, and towers.
Two blaze monster spawners generate in every Nether fortress, and are located on small platforms surrounded by nether brick fences with a three-block staircase leading up to it.


=== Gameplay ===
Achievements

Added 10 new achievements.

Breeding

 Wheat attracts and feed animals.
Feeding animals makes them enter "love mode".
Hearts will come out of animals while in love mode.
Breeding will produce baby animals.
Brewing

Produces potions.
Controls

Debug controls (from the pre-re-uploaded version of Beta 1.8 Pre-release):
F9: Freezes the camera in its current position.
F6: Enables a strange "bouncy" movement. It locks the player's Y coordinate (meaning they cannot jump or fall). It makes the player accelerate relatively slowly when moving. Additionally, the player can also clip into blocks slightly - at a high enough speed, the player can push all the way through a block. Transparent blocks have no clipping whatsoever.
N and M: Changes the view's rotation clockwise and anti-clockwise, respectively. Hold both keys simultaneously resets the rotation.
Y and H: Decreases and increases the field of view, respectively. These keys seem to affect the field of view differently to how the FOV option does - the player's hand (or anything the player is holding) also becomes stretched as the field of view increases or decreases, which does not happen if the player changes the FOV option in the menu. Holding both keys simultaneously resets the field of view.
I: Makes the player look up, J looks left, K looks down, and L looks right. These movements are normally done by moving the mouse. This setting cannot be reset by holding any keys simultaneously.
U and O: Moves the third-person camera forwards and backwards, respectively. This setting cannot be reset by holding both keys simultaneously.

Effects

 Speed
Now has an icon.
Causes entities to move faster on foot.
 Slowness
Now has an icon.
Decreases walking speed.
 Haste
Now has an icon.
Increases mining efficiency and attack speed.
 Mining Fatigue
Now has an icon.
Reduces mining efficiency and attack speed.
Instant Health
Increases health for players and living mobs and damages the undead.
Instant Damage
Decreases health for players and living mobs and heals the undead.
 Water Breathing
Now has an icon.
Delays drowning.
 Nausea
Now has an icon.
Warps and wobbles the player's vision.
 Strength
Now has an icon.
Increases attack damage.
 Weakness
Now has an icon.
Decreases attack damage.
 Jump Boost
Now has an icon.
Increases the jumping height of the bearer.
 Resistance
Now has an icon.
Reduces incoming damage.
 Fire Resistance
Now has an icon.
Grants the affected entity complete immunity to all sources of fire damage.
 Invisibility
Now has an icon.
Turns players and mobs completely transparent and see-through, but has no effect on held items, worn armor, or certain parts of some mobs.
 Blindness
Now has an icon.
Impairs a player's vision.
 Night Vision
Now has an icon.
Enhances the player's ability to see in darkness and underwater.
Enchanting

Enchantment tables require bookshelves to get maximum enchantments, up to level 50 with 30 bookshelves.
Added 17 enchantments.

 Hardcore mode

Locks the difficulty to Hard and forces users to delete the world's save data upon death.
The health bar changes appearance to indicate the game is in Hardcore mode.
Item repair

Two of the same tools/weapons that are damaged in crafting will create one repaired tool/weapon.
Select World

The world file size is no longer displayed.


==== Commands ====
/toggledownfall

Toggles the weather.
If weather is currently clear, rain or snow starts.
If weather is currently rain, snow, or a thunderstorm, it becomes clear.
/xp

The command take a player name and then a number of xp orbs to award.


=== General ===
Credit sequence

Is the lines of text and music that play after the End Poem.
End Poem

Is a freehand narrative poem written by novelist and poet Julian Gough that can be seen when the player enters the exit portal in the End dimension.
Particles

Added dripWater, magicCrit, spell, instantSpell, mobSpell and dripLava.
Video settings

Added "Clouds" setting, which can be used to enable/disable clouds.
Added "Particles" setting
"All", rendering all particle effects.
"Decreased", rendering half of all particle effects.
"Minimal", rendering no particle effects (except for those created when breaking blocks).
server.properties

New settings:
debug
enable-query
enable-rcon
query.port
rcon.password
rcon.port
Splash

Added new splashes:
"Made by Jeb!"
"Has an ending!"
"Finally complete!"
"Feature packed!"
"Boots with the fur!"
"Stop, hammertime!"
"Testificates!"
"Conventional!"
"Homeomorphic to a 3-sphere!"
"Doesn't avoid double negatives!"
"Place ALL the blocks!"
"Does barrel rolls!"
"Meeting expectations!"
"PC gaming since 1873!"
"Ghoughpteighbteau tchoghs!"
"Déjà vu!"
"Déjà vu!"
"Got your nose!"
"Haley loves Elan!"
"Afraid of the big, black bat!"
"Doesn't use the U-word!"
"Child's play!"
"See you next Friday or so!"
"From the streets of Södermalm!"
"150 bpm for 400000 minutes!"
"Technologic!"
"Funk soul brother!"
"Pumpa kungen!"


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Beds

No longer spawns monsters when the player is sleeping.
Instead, trying to sleep when monsters are around displays a message saying You may not rest now, there are monsters nearby.
 Block of diamond

Texture changed from .
 Block of gold

Texture changed from .
 Block of iron

Texture changed from ..
 Bookshelves

When destroyed, drops 3 books.
Changed the top texture from .
 Bricks

Texture changed from .
 Brick slab

Texture changed from .
 Brick stairs

Texture changed from .
Now drops itself instead of bricks.
Chests

Chests no longer prevent other chests underneath from opening.
Coal ore

Can now be smelted in a furnace into coal.
Cobblestone stairs

Now drops itself instead of cobblestone.
Shrub

Renamed from "Grass" to "Shrub".
Detector rail

Is now mined faster using pickaxes.
 Dirt

Texture changed from .
Fern

Renamed.
Is now available in the Creative inventory.
Fire

Fire on bedrock in the End now burns forever.
Glass pane

No longer drops as an item when destroyed.
 Glowstone

Texture changed from .
Changed material type from "glass" to "stone".
A pickaxe is now needed to drop items.
Redstone, torches, levers, etc. can now be placed on the block.
No longer acts as a redstone vertical (downward) diode.
 Grass block

Texture changed from .
 Gravel

Texture changed from .
Iron door

Decreased mining time.
Iron Bars

Decreased mining time.
 Monster spawner

Texture changed from .
Decreased mining time.
 Netherrack

Texture changed from .
Lapis lazuli ore

Can now be smelted in a furnace into lapis lazuli.
 Lava

Texture changed from .
When flowing lava hits a water source directly from above, it creates stone.
Previously, lava would flow through the water.
If lava is above a ceiling that is a single block thick, particles of lava will drip through, provided the player is within 13 blocks of the ceiling.
Entities are now set on fire for 15 seconds (300 ticks) instead of 30 seconds (600 ticks) after being directly hurt by lava.
Obsidian

To offset the advantage of pickaxes mining stone-related blocks faster, their "hardness" value has been changed from 10 to 50.
This means that its mining time has been decreased from 15 to 10 seconds.
 Planks

Texture changed from .
Powered rail

Is now mined faster using pickaxes.
Rails

Is now mined faster using pickaxes.
Redstone ore

Is now mined faster using pickaxes.
Decreased mining time.
Can now be smelted in a furnace into redstone dust.
Roses

Generate naturally once again.
 Sand

Texture changed from .
 Stone

Texture changed from .
Stone bricks

Decreased mining time.
Stone bricks slab

Decreased mining time.
Stone brick stairs

Decreased mining time.
Now drops itself instead of stone bricks.
 Water

Changed texture from .
If water is above a ceiling that is a single block thick, particles of the water will drip through, provided the player is within 13 blocks of the ceiling.
Wooden door

Decreased mining time.
 Wooden fence

Changed the texture from .
Now connects to solid blocks.
No longer blocks players from moving onto their space.
Players can now stand next to them, similar to glass panes and iron bars.
Fence post selection boxes now resemble their collision boxes.
 Petrified oak slab

Changed texture from .
 Wooden stairs

Changed texture from .
Now drops itself instead of oak planks.


=== Items ===
Armor

Armor level is no longer reduced when strength is lost.
Armor durability increased.
Iron armor can now be found in the new stronghold altar chests.
Armor no longer reduces certain damage types to be covered by enchantments:
Explosion
Fire
Projectiles
Axes

Now breaks all (previously only a few) wood-related blocks faster than by hand.
Bows

Now appears larger in third-person view when held.
No longer needs arrows for ammunition when in Creative mode.
Now has a durability of 385.
Changed how fully charged bows behave.
Full charged bows now deal 9HP damage, with a rare chance of dealing 10HP.
Added additional bow sounds.
Bucket

In Creative mode, using an empty bucket no longer fills it up when removing fluids with it.
Ender pearls

Can now be thrown.
The player will teleport to the ender pearl's impact location, but take 21⁄2 hearts of fall damage.
Unable to be thrown in Creative mode.
Flint and steel

Ignite sound changed.
 Golden apple

Now has a glint in the inventory (looks enchanted).
The rarity of the golden apple has been changed to "Epic", showing a magenta tooltip instead of white.
Golden apples can now be found in the new stronghold altar chests.
Gold ingot

Crafted with gold nugget.

Milk bucket

Is now drinkable.
Drinking milk resets all potion effects currently afflicted upon the player.
Lava bucket

Placing lava with a bucket treats other fluid source blocks like solid blocks, allowing the player to place them on top of each other without an adjacent wall.
Pickaxes

Iron pickaxes can now be found in the new stronghold altar chests.
Can now break all (previously only a few) stone-related blocks faster than by hand, including:
Block of diamond, block of gold, block of iron, dispensers, furnaces, iron bars, iron doors, monster spawners, obsidian, redstone ore, and stone bricks.
Pumpkin seeds

2–4 pumpkin seeds now have a 10⁄75 chance of generating in mineshaft chests.
  Redstone wire

Can now be used as a brewing ingredient.
Can now be brewed in a water bottle to create a mundane potion.
Now extends the potions of Fire Resistance, Slowness, Swiftness, Poison, Weakness, Regeneration and Strength.
Changed single redstone wire model from a cross to a dot shape.
Shears

Added shear sounds.
Shovels

Now mine soul sand faster than by hand.
Swords 

Iron swords can now be found in the new stronghold altar chests.
The stone, iron and diamond swords now deal less damage:

Water bucket

Placing water with a bucket treats other fluid source blocks like solid blocks, allowing the player to place them on top of each other without an adjacent wall.


=== Mobs ===
General

Hostile mobs are now neutral to players in Creative mode.
Entity punch range in Creative mode has been reduced as a result.
Cave spider

Cave spiders now drop 0-1 spider eye when killed by a player or tamed wolf.
The cave spider's health points have been reduced from 20HP × 10 to 12HP × 6.
Cave spiders are now immune to the Poison status effect.
Cave spiders are now considered arthropods.
Chickens

Can now be bred.
 Cows

Can now be bred.
Enderman

Ranged attacks, such as Arrows, snowballs, and eggs, no longer hit them, as they teleport away before impact.
Enderman now teleport away and become neutral if they are in water.
Enderman can no longer pick up any block. (see here for the list of blocks).
Endermen now have 40HP × 20 health points instead of 20HP × 10.
Endermen used to burn in sunlight, but as of this update, they instead randomly teleport around until they find a dark spot or despawn eventually. This makes it extremely hard to get close enough to kill them during daytime.
Endermen now have their own sounds instead of using zombie sounds.
When they teleport, it sounds like a shortened version of the Nether portal sound.
Ghast

Ghasts are now affected by light and no longer appear with the same brightness anywhere.
Now drop 0–1 ghast tears.
Pigs

Can now be bred.
Sheep

Now have 8HP health points.
Can now be bred.
Silverfish

True sounds of silverfish are added.
 Skeleton

Texture changed from .
Improved walking sounds.
Slime

Now spawn on levels 0–40 rather than 0–16, making them much more common.
Big slimes (size +4 slimes) have deeper jump sounds.
Spider

Cave spiders now drop 0–1 spider eye when killed by a player or tamed wolf.
Now have 16HP × 8 health points.
Cave spiders are now immune to the Poison status effect.
Cave spiders are now considered arthropods.
Zombies

Additional armor points were added, making them tougher.
Now have 20HP × 10 health points and 2 ().


=== Non-mob entities ===
Arrows

No longer visually stay stuck in mobs upon impact.
Thrown eggs

Can now hatch baby chickens.
 Ghast fireball

Changed texture from .
Status effects

Entities under a status effect will produce swirl particles.


=== World generation ===
General

Borders between landmasses and oceans have changed, making landmasses smaller and closer together.
 Strongholds

The End portal room was added.
More randomly placed chests.
1×1 glass pillars protruding from ground to sky limit at the location of strongholds.
 Swamp

Grass, foliage, and water have been given much darker colors.
Lily Pads now generate on water.


=== Gameplay ===
Blocking

Now moves the player's arm, rather than the sword floating right in front of the player.
Death

The amount of experience orbs dropped by players on death is now limited.
A proper score is given based on how many experience orbs players have collected.
Old death sound removed.
 Experience

Can be used for enchantments.
Each experience orb is worth one score point.
Jumping

Slight delay between jumps when holding down the jump button.
Players no longer bounce between the ceiling and the floor in two-block-high spaces.
Third-person view

Toggling third-person view twice now switches the camera to the front of the player, while it now takes a third press of F5 to switch back into first-person view.


=== General ===
Inventory

Active status effects now appear in the inventory as sprites.
Item tooltips

Labels for items have a blue border
Font color for rare items (golden apples and music discs) are now pink.
Title screen

"Mods and Texture Packs" button changed to "Texture Packs".
Added "Minceraft" easter egg.
Moon and Sun

Now rise in the east and set in the west.
Added moon phases.
Splash

Changed some splashes:
"OpenGL 1.1!" to "OpenGL 1.2!".
"Coming soon!" to "It's here!".
"When it's finished!" to "It's finished!".
"That's not a moon!" to "That's no moon!".
"Absolutely dragon free!" to "Kind of dragon free!".
"Superfragilisticexpialidocious!" to "Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious!".
"Tyrian would love it!" to "Tyrion would love it!".
""Noun" is an autonym!" to ""Autological" is!".
Texture packs

The player can reload the texture pack by pressing F3 + T.


=== Sound Update ===
Alongside the release of this version, the asset server was updated with the following new sounds:

The chest opening and closing now has its own sound, different from the door sound.
Experience orbs now make a twinkling sound when collected.
The entity damage sound has been changed to a genderless bone-cracking sound.
Players and all mobs make the same bone-cracking sound when taking fall damage.
Eating and drinking now have sounds.
Blazes have been given an ambient breathing noise.
Endermen now have their own sounds instead of using zombie sounds. ​[more information needed]
When they teleport, it sounds like a shortened version of the Nether portal sound.
Magma cubes now make sounds.
Silverfish now make sounds.
Arrow landing was changed to a more twangy sound.
Tools and armor now make a breaking sound, and have a breaking animation.
The following sounds were replaced with new versions on the asset server; thus, the updated sounds also applied to older versions of the game.

The arrow firing and thrown item (snowball, egg, fishing rod and eye of ender) sound was changed.
Wooden and iron doors, trapdoors and fence gates' opening and closing sounds were changed.
Explosions now have several new, slightly differing sounds instead of just one.


== Technical ==


=== General ===
Debug screen

The version number at the top-left corner is displayed only in the debug screen again.
Performance

Performance improvements.


== Trivia ==
Originally, this update was planned to be released as Beta 1.9, but after six pre-releases were pushed out, it was decided that 1.0.0 would be the version name, and to push the release date back to during MINECON 2011.
The 2014 April Fools joke references the version villagers were implemented in as Beta 1.9, even though they were technically a 1.0.0 implementation.
Aside from marking the "true" release of the game, this is the last update to be developed by Notch before he left the Minecraft team.
1.0.0 was the only version with release candidates until 1.16.
1.0.0 is the only major update with no snapshots, as snapshots didn't exist yet.
1.0.0 was released manually by developers behind the stage at MINECON 2011 as Notch pulled the "lever" on stage, since the team couldn't schedule the update to be released at an exact moment.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==