20w45a is the first snapshot for Java Edition 1.17, released on November 4, 2020, which adds the first Caves & Cliffs features.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Amethyst bud

Grows from budding amethyst, which is found in amethyst geodes.
Starts out small, but grows into medium after a while, large after even more time and eventually becomes an amethyst cluster.
Unlike crops, each growth stage is a separate block instead of a block state.
Drops nothing if broken in its premature stages, even with Silk Touch.
 Amethyst cluster

The final, mature stage of the amethyst bud, which grows from budding amethyst in amethyst geodes.
Drops amethyst shards if broken, in an amount affected by Fortune, but can also be picked up with Silk Touch.
Emits a light level of 5.
 Block of amethyst

A block found in amethyst geodes.
Unlike the budding amethyst, the block of amethyst can be obtained when mined.
Can also be crafted with 4 amethyst shards.
 Budding amethyst

Generates amethyst crystals on any of its sides (if next to a water source block or air, and if the side is not against another block), in a given time.
Cannot be obtained when mined, even with Silk Touch, and does not drop anything.
Breaks immediately if pushed by a piston or sticky piston.
Cannot be pulled by sticky pistons.
Generates in amethyst geodes.
 Calcite

An off-white stone that generates in geodes, between tuff and amethyst.
 Candles

Crafted with honeycomb and string.
Come with 16 dyed types and a yellowish non-dyed type.
Can be lit by any item that produces fire.
Up to 4 can be placed in a single block, similar to sea pickles, for a maximum light level of 12.
Only candles of the same color can be placed on the same block.
Only one can be placed on an uneaten cake and lit.
If any of the cake is consumed the candle pops off.
Can be placed, but cannot be lit, underwater.
 Copper block

Can be crafted with 9 copper ingots, and can also be crafted back into 9 copper ingots.
Oxidizes and changes texture to a turquoise-green over time.
Can be stopped from oxidizing by combining it with a honeycomb to create a waxed copper block.
Can be crafted into cut copper.
 Copper ore

Generates randomly underground in small blobs, but this has been confirmed to be a placeholder.
Has the same rarity as iron.
Generating starts at the same minimum level(s) as iron.
Can be smelted into a copper ingot.
 Cut copper

Can be made into stair and slab variants.
Oxidizes and changes texture over time.
Can be stopped from oxidizing by combining it with a honeycomb to create waxed cut copper.
 Cut copper slab

Oxidizes and changes texture over time.
Can be stopped from oxidizing by combining it with a honeycomb to create a waxed cut copper slab.
 Cut copper stairs

Oxidizes and changes texture over time.
Can be stopped from oxidizing by combining it with a honeycomb to create waxed cut copper stairs.
 Lightning rod

Can be crafted with 3 copper ingots.
Nearby lightning strikes within a 16 block radius get redirected to the lightning rod.
Gives off a redstone signal with a strength of 15 if hit by lightning.
Can be activated directly by throwing a trident with Channeling at it during a thunderstorm, though this does not produce a redstone signal.
 Tinted glass

A black variant of glass that does not let light pass through.
Can be crafted with 4 amethyst shards and a glass block.
Stained glass cannot be used to craft tinted glass.
Drops itself if mined without Silk Touch or even by hand, unlike glass.
 Tuff

A grayish stone that composes the outer layer of amethyst geodes.


=== Items ===
 Amethyst shard

Obtained from breaking amethyst clusters.
The amount dropped can be increased with the Fortune enchantment.
Can be used to craft tinted glass, blocks of amethyst and a spyglass.
 Bundle

Crafted with 2 string and 6 rabbit hide.
Used to store other items (except shulker boxes) inside of it.
Is able to hold different types of items inside of it.
Holds the equivalent of one single stack of items.
Items with smaller stacks, such as ender pearls, take up more room in a bundle, and non-stackable items take up the whole bundle.
The bundle's contents can be opened by pressing use while holding it.
 Copper ingot

Obtained by smelting copper ore.
Used to craft copper blocks, lightning rods and spyglasses.
 Spyglass

Crafted with 2 copper ingots and an amethyst shard.
When used, it zooms in on wherever the player is looking, but limits their view to a small circle. 
The overlay that limits the view can be removed with a resource pack or by pressing F1.
There is a unique animation for using the spyglass, which is visible in third person perspective.


=== World generation ===
 Amethyst geodes

A new feature found uncommonly underground (can rarely appear exposed to the surface close to sea level).
Contains blocks of amethyst and budding amethyst blocks, which are encased in a shell of calcite and tuff.
Also generates with a small air pocket nearby which may open into the geode.
Generally generates at or below sea level. (y = 63)
Most commonly generates at lower levels. (y = 0 to y = 40)
Overrides standard caves and canyons, but is overridden by mineshafts.
Currently has a high generation rate, presumably for testing purposes which was also done with ruined portals before.


=== General ===
Loot tables

New functions: set_banner_pattern
Sets tags needed for banner patterns. Parameters:
patterns  list of pattern objects:
pattern  name of pattern (square_bottom_left, bricks, etc.)
color  name of color (light_gray, etc.)
append  if true, new elements are appended to existing ones instead of replacing.
Tags

Added the candle_cakes block tag.
Contains all 17 types of candle cake.
If the player puts a candle on a cake, and keeps clicking the candle on the cake, the candle is duplicated.
Blocks in this tag are considered candle cakes and can be lit, if they have the lit block states set to false.
Added the candles block and item tags.
Contains all 17 types of candles.
Blocks in this tag are considered candles and can be lit, if they have the lit and waterlogged block states and both are false.
Cakes use this tag to determine if a candle item can be placed on it or not.
Added the cauldrons block tag.
Contains cauldrons, water cauldrons, and lava cauldrons.
This tag is used in certain pathfinding processes.
Added the crystal_sound_blocks block tag.
Contains amethyst blocks and budding amethyst.
Blocks in this tag play the "amethyst block chime" sound repeatedly for a short amount of time after being stepped on, gradually decreasing in volume.
Added the ignored_by_piglin_babies item tag.
Contains leather.
Baby piglins do not attempt to pick up items in this tag. Adult piglins are unaffected. Baby piglins still follow the other rules adult piglins follow.
If an item is in this tag while simultaneously being recognized as a wanted item by piglins, this tag takes precedence.
Added the piglin_food item tag.
Contains raw and cooked porkchop.
Piglins can eat items in this tag.
Eating refers to the piglin seeking out and picking up an item without appearing in its inventory, thus vanishing.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Cauldrons

Can now be filled with lava.
Lava filled cauldrons can damage players and mobs inside of it.
Lava filled cauldrons give off a redstone comparator signal of strength 1.
Have been split into normal, water and lava cauldrons.
Grass path

Renamed to "Dirt Path", as per Bedrock Edition.
The block ID has also been changed to dirt_path.
Can now be made with dirt, coarse dirt, mycelium, and podzol.
Pistons

Particles now appear if a block is broken by a piston.
Sounds, however, do not.
All rails

Are now able to be waterlogged.
No longer break when contacted by water.
Water 

Flowing water no longer breaks rails.
Shulker boxes

Now mimics the opening and closing of a shulker.
Unlike its mob counterpart, it does not elevate the player when they are standing on it.
Cakes

Have a variation called "Candle Cake".
Can be created by using a candle on an uneaten cake.
The candle on the cake comes with 17 colors, depending on the color of the candle used to create it.
Pop out the original candle when any of the cake is eaten.


=== Items ===
Firework rockets

Simple firework rockets with one gunpowder can now be crafted using the recipe book.


=== Mobs ===
Shulkers

If a shulker is hit by another shulker's projectile, it now has a chance of spawning a new shulker.
Shulkers are more likely to spawn new shulkers when there are fewer other shulkers nearby.


=== Non-mob entities ===
Experience orbs

Now sometimes merge when in large quantities, to improve performance.
Merging does not affect the amount of experience gathered from collecting the merged orbs.
No longer follow dead players.
Minecarts

Can now move in water, but move considerably slower than they do on land.


=== General ===
Data and resource packs

Changed the resource pack version number from 6 to 7, as the following have been changed:
Drowned texture mirroring has changed.
Slots for the game mode selector are now 26 pixels instead of 25.
Split the pack_version number into separate resource and data pack versions; the data pack version remains at 6.
Dedicated servers

A dedicated server can enforce custom resource packs by setting require-resource-pack in server.properties. When this option is used, players are prompted for a response and are disconnected if they decline the required pack.
Entity storage

Entities have been extracted from main (terrain) chunks and are now stored in separate entities directory (similar to POI storage). Those new files are still region files with NBT.
Libraries

The game now uses javabridge 1.1.23 instead of 1.0.22.


== Fixes ==
54 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.17

MC-98219  Experience orbs follow dead players.
MC-108469  Chunk-wise entity lists often don't get updated correctly (entities disappear).
MC-112147  Lava burning items or XP orbs sound muted when "Friendly Creatures" slider is turned off.
MC-126997  Undyed shulker box still uses cauldron's water when right clicking.
MC-127201  /replaceitem makes quite an obnoxious sound, which is not heard by the person whose items are being replaced.
MC-127692  Experience build up in furnace when using a hopper which can cause severe lag.
MC-130449  Cartographer villager freezes or crashes the game when unlocking explorer maps.
MC-130584  When a structure loads, water sources in the structure spread into waterloggable blocks.
MC-133691  Blocks cannot be placed normally on a full cauldron.
MC-135552  Dead entities are saved to chunk.
MC-136497  XP orbs causing severe lag.
MC-141034  taiga_fisher_cottage_1 is filled with water.
MC-143732  Undead mobs that are halfway in sand blocks dont burn in daylight.
MC-151270  Teleporting an entity from another dimension can cause UUID duplication in entity sections.
MC-160994  Blocks broken by pistons do not display breaking particles.
MC-161592  Entities lose their scores when switching dimensions.
MC-168398  Guardian beam is darker.
MC-169900  Incorrect jigsaw setting in snowy_small_house_8.
MC-169945  Skeletons do not burn in minecarts while being exposed to daylight.
MC-170653  Fireworks fired from a dispenser get stuck in the air when removing the block they crashed into.
MC-171852  Putting item in a spectator's hand plays sound "Gear equips" for other players.
MC-174685  Drowned arm texture is reversed by the model.
MC-175959  One door is open in taiga_shepherds_house_1.
MC-177539  When flattening a grass block into a path immediately after the grass block grows from dirt, the shovel sound doesn't play.
MC-177622  One log in taiga_butcher_shop_1 seems to be misrotated - causing the side roof to look asymmetrical.
MC-177624  Entrance in snowy_medium_house_2 is asymmetrical.
MC-181889  Equipping sound plays when mobs picking up non-armor items.
MC-185357  Removing a plant from a flower pot still plays generic armor equipping sound/shows Gear equips in subtitles.
MC-185359  Using a bucket in Survival mode still plays generic armor equipping sound/shows Gear equips in subtitles.
MC-185360  Milking a mooshroom for stew still plays armor equip sound/shows Gear equips subtitle.
MC-188044  Using a banner on a filled cauldron plays hand animation.
MC-189565  Some entities do not render inside of spawners and producing error log spam in console, potentially causing lag.
MC-190896  Lag when opening a shipwreck chest containing buried treasure map.
MC-192594  plains_stable_1 misplaced blocks.
MC-192629  plains_stable_2 misplaced blocks.
MC-192876  Misplaced trapdoor on taiga_decoration_6.
MC-192879  Wall incorrectly placed on certain taiga houses.
MC-192930  Zombies picking up items play the gear equipping sound and subtitle.
MC-193071  Eating food items that return empty containers still play gear equipping sound.
MC-194685  Collecting water from cauldrons with glass bottles in Creative mode is still inconsistent.
MC-194686  Collecting water from cauldrons with buckets in Creative mode is still inconsistent.
MC-195125  plains_animal_pen_1 misplaced block.
MC-195126  plains_animal_pen_3 misplaced blocks.
MC-195351  Comparator in compare mode can schedule unneeded tileticks.
MC-196542  Small cleanup for skylight propagation code.
MC-196638  Placing an armor stand logs warning "Trying to add entity with duplicated UUID".
MC-197009  Referencing empty item tag in recipe can crash client.
MC-197140  Jack o'lantern does not come after carved pumpkin in Creative inventory.
MC-197179  Baby piglins that pick up leather do not despawn, cluttering the Nether with unnecessary baby piglins.
MC-197524  Border chunks do not enforce neighbors to be loaded, causing light updates to get stuck.
MC-198129  ReplaceBlobsFeature changed from 1.16.1 to 1.16.2, affecting Basalt Delta generation.
MC-198414  If the angle in /spawnpoint is set to infinity, and the player dies, it will kick the player, and upon rejoin will crash the game.
MC-198807  Making piglins and piglin brutes angry at certain entities (like dropped items) crashes the game.
MC-202246  Drowned navigation causes memory leak/performance degredation.


== Videos ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==