Pre-Classic is the name given to the prototype versions of Minecraft (what is now Java Edition) developed before the game was released for private testing. It was the very first development phase of the game, lasting for not even a week; very early development of the game started around May 10 or 11 and lasted until May 16, 2009. There were no pre-Classic versions publicly released at the time. The original title was "Cave Game" until it was changed to "Minecraft: Order of the Stone", then to simply "Minecraft".


== History ==

This phase began when Markus Persson (Notch) started working on a "Cave Game". He was influenced to create the game by Infiniminer, Dwarf Fortress and Dungeon Keeper, as well as one of his previous games, RubyDung.

The textures used for grass and stone blocks (the latter eventually being reworked for cobblestone) were from said game, and internally, the game's class files referred to it as "RubyDung". Other blocks and items were soon added, such as saplings, dirt, stone, and planks. Mobs, which would later become the player model, were also added, with their model and texture reused from another of Notch's earlier games, Zombie Town.
Little is known about this development phase, since it was never publicly released, and only Notch could test the versions. Some versions in this phase could previously be seen in videos on Notch's YouTube channel Nizzotch, though most of the videos have been blocked in most countries for unknown reasons.
A tech test was shown in Notch's "Cave game tech test" video (archive) on May 13, 2009. The ability to place blocks was not present at the time.
This stage of development ended less than a week later on May 16, 2009. Four pre-Classic versions were later made available to the public through the launcher, with the earliest being rd-132211, originally developed on May 13, 2009. All of them are modified in 2013, making them technically not original.


== Features ==

Physics
Grass block
Mobs
Level generator
Particles
Cobblestone
Mob spawning: pressing (G)
The void
The ability to respawn somewhere else on the world by pressing (R)
Placing blocks by left-clicking
Destroying blocks by right-clicking
World saving by pressing (↵ Enter) or when closing the game by pressing (esc)


== Versions ==
Cave game tech test
Java Edition pre-Classic rd-132211
Java Edition pre-Classic rd-132328
Java Edition pre-Classic rd-20090515
Java Edition pre-Classic rd-160052
Java Edition pre-Classic rd-161348


== Trivia ==
Breaking a block doesn't drop anything, as the ability to drop an item was not yet added.
When loading a pre-Classic version using the launcher, instead of the window title being "Minecraft" it is simply titled "Game".
The name "Order of the Stone" was later reused in the spin-off game Minecraft: Story Mode as a legendary team of adventurers.
The naming system in this phase Mojang retroactively used is "rd-ddhhmm", where "rd" stands for RubyDung, an earlier project of Notch's, and the ddhhmm part is a timestamp referring to the build time in the Europe/Stockholm timezone: dd is day of the month, hh is the hour, and mm is the minute released, so for example, rd-132211 was built on May 13 at 22:11. An exception to this system is rd-20090515, which instead uses the full date in the year-month-day format.


== See also ==
Classic
Indev
Infdev
Alpha
Beta
Java Edition


== References ==


== Navigation ==