People very, very often have questions regarding the Java Edition protocol, so we'll try to address some of the most common ones on this document. If you're still having trouble, join us on the Minecraft Wiki's Discord server, the Minecraft Protocol Discord server, or our IRC channel #mcdevs on irc.libera.chat.


== Is the protocol documentation complete? ==
Depending on your definition, yes! All packet types are known and their layout documented. Some finer details are missing, but everything you need to make functional programs is present. We also collect information on the pre-release protocol changes, allowing us to quickly document new releases.


== What's the normal login sequence for a client? ==
(This is about joining a Minecraft server. See Microsoft authentication for how to log in to a Minecraft account, and protocol encryption for details on player authentication during server login.)
The recommended login sequence as of 1.21 looks like this, where C is the client and S is the server:

Client connects to the server
CS: Handshake State=2
CS: Login Start
SC: Encryption Request (optional)
Client auth (Only if server sent Encryption Request)
CS: Encryption Response (Only if server sent Encryption Request)
Server auth, both enable encryption (Only if server sent Encryption Request)
S  C: Set Compression (Optional, enables compression)
S  C: Login Success
C  S: Login Acknowledged
C  S: Serverbound Plugin Message (Optional, minecraft:brand with the client's brand)
C  S: Client Information (Optional)
S  C: Clientbound Plugin Message (Optional, minecraft:brand with the server's brand)
S  C: Feature Flags (Optional)
S  C: Clientbound Known Packs (Optional)
C  S: Serverbound Known Packs (Optional)
S  C: Registry Data (Multiple)
S  C: Update Tags (Optional)
S  C: Finish Configuration
C  S: Acknowledge Finish Configuration
S  C: Login (play)
S  C: Change Difficulty (Optional)
S  C: Player Abilities (Optional)
S  C: Set Held Item (Optional)
S  C: Update Recipes (Optional)
S  C: Entity Event (Optional, for the OP permission level; see Entity statuses#Player)
S  C: Commands (Optional)
S  C: Update Recipe Book (Optional)
S  C: Synchronize Player Position
C  S: Confirm Teleportation
C  S: Set Player Position and Rotation (Optional, to confirm the spawn position)
S  C: Server Data (Optional)
S  C: Player Info Update (Add Player action, all players except the one joining (the vanilla server separates these, you don't need to))
S  C: Player Info Update (Add Player action, joining player)
S  C: Initialize World Border (Optional)
S  C: Update Time (Optional)
S  C: Set Default Spawn Position (Optional, home spawn, not where the client will spawn on login)
S  C: Game Event (Start waiting for level chunks event, required for the client to spawn. Despite the name, a custom server may choose to send some chunks before sending this packet)
S  C: Set Ticking State (Optional)
S  C: Step Tick (Optional, the vanilla server sends this regardless of ticking state)
S  C: Set Center Chunk
S  C: Chunk Data and Update Light (One sent for each chunk in a circular area centered on the player's position)
C  S: Player Loaded (After the "Loading terrain..." screen has closed (see below), or skipped if 60 ticks pass before then)
S  C: inventory, entities, etc.


=== Offline mode ===
If the vanilla server is in offline mode, it will not send the Encryption Request packet, and likewise, the client should not send Encryption Response. In this case, encryption is never enabled, and no authentication is performed.
Clients can tell that a server is in offline mode if the server sends a Login Success without sending Encryption Request.
Versions 1.20.5 and newer support protocol encryption in offline mode, in which case the Encryption Request packet can be sent with Should Authenticate set to false, and both the client and server should not authenticate with Mojang. However, it's currently not possible to configure the vanilla server to do this.


== What does the normal status ping sequence look like? ==
When a vanilla client and server exchange information in a status ping, the exchange of packets will be as follows:

C  S: Handshake with Next State set to 1 (Status)
Client and Server set protocol state to Status.
C  S: Status Request
S  C: Status Response
C  S: Ping Request
S  C: Pong Response
Both sides close the connection
(Note that C is the vanilla client and S is the vanilla server).
The Ping Request packet may be left out, however the client will not receive a Pong Response packet and the server won't close the connection.


== I think I've done everything right, but... ==


=== ...my player isn't spawning! ===
The Minecraft client will wait at the "Loading Terrain..." screen until late in the login sequence. As of 1.21.4 (and starting with 1.20.3), in order for the client to spawn, it must have received a Game Event packet with event 13 ("Start waiting for level chunks"), and at least one of the following conditions must be met:

The player is in a loaded chunk (sent via Chunk Data and Update Light).
The player is below the minimum world height or above the maximum world height (teleported via Synchronize Player Position, or moved by gravity after the Player Loaded timeout has expired).
The player is in spectator mode (set via Player Info Update, not the Game Mode field in Login (play)!)
The player is dead (set via Set Health or Combat Death).
The client will also spawn after spending 30 seconds in the loading screen, even if it never received Game Event 13.
In past versions, you could either (1.19.3 through 1.20.2) send the default spawn position packet or (pre-1.19.3) send the player position packet. In general, try sending packets that inform the client about the player's position in the world in order to get past the loading terrain screen.
As of 1.21.4, the minimum packets that need to be received and sent by the server in order to get the client past the loading terrain screen and into the world appear to be:

Receive Handshake
Receive Login Start
Send Login Success
Receive Login Acknowledged
Send multiple Registry Data (one for each registry, must contain NBT unless the server also negotiates known packs and the client indicates support in the reply)
Send Finish Configuration
Receive Acknowledge Finish Configuration
Send Login (Play)
Send Game Event, Start waiting for level chunks
Send Chunk Data and Update Light and/or Synchronize Player Position (see above)
The most difficult part of this may be sending the Registry Data packets required to define the contents of server-side data packs (including the vanilla data pack) which the client needs to know about. The amount of data that is strictly required is rather small compared to the amount sent by a vanilla server, but depending on your expectations and chosen approach, it may be easier to send all vanilla entries anyway. A complete list of requirements can be found at Java Edition protocol/Registries#List of synchronized registries.
Possible approaches include:

Parse the JSON files in the vanilla data pack (and possibly custom data packs), convert them to NBT, and send them as entries in Registry Data packets. The vanilla client is rather lenient in its interpretation of NBT, so no knowledge of the schema is required to perform this conversion (though the vanilla server does use a schema, and it may be wise to do so later in development). It is also necessary to send Update Tags to define the tags referenced in the vanilla registry JSON. They can also be obtained from JSON files in the data pack. This was the vanilla server behavior prior to 1.21, and is still used as a fallback when known packs negotiation fails, e.g. due to mismatched game versions with the same PVN.
Gather a list of JSON files provided for each registry in the vanilla data pack. Negotiate known packs, and send listings of the vanilla entries for each registry (removing the .json from the names), without NBT. The client will load the JSON files from its copy of the data pack, and behave as if they were sent by the server as NBT. It is still necessary to send Update Tags as before. This is done by the vanilla server since 1.21 when known packs negotiation succeeds, in order to save bandwidth. A server may take advantage of this to avoid needing to encode NBT early in development, but serious implementations should also support the fallback case. One may also want to support a mix of fully vanilla entries that can be sourced from known packs, and custom entries/overrides, as is done by the vanilla server when custom data packs are in use.
Negotiate known packs, and send the minimum required entries without NBT. As of 1.21.10 this includes the required damage types, the biome minecraft:plains, and one arbitrary entry for each of the registries that are required to be non-empty (variants and dimension types). As of 1.21.10 no tags are required for these vanilla entries. This is the absolute minimum amount of data required to be sent by the server, but also the least flexible approach.
Do not negotiate known packs, and send entirely custom data. There is no strict requirement to use any definitions from the vanilla data pack. The only required entries with specific names are the ones listed above, and even these do not need to have the same data as in vanilla. This approach may be preferred by servers that demand extreme customization of client behavior, and may or may not also be considered more fun/interesting by the developer.
Regardless of the approach, the order in which the entries are listed in the Registry Data packets is critically important, as it determines the IDs used to refer to the entries elsewhere in the protocol. The server may choose this order arbitrarily, but it must keep track of the IDs assigned as a result.


=== ...chunks are randomly showing and disappearing! ===
The vanilla client only reliably renders chunks surrounded by other loaded chunks on all sides. See Chunk Format#Tips and notes.


=== ...the client is trying to send an invalid packet that begins with 0xFE01 ===
The client is attempting a legacy ping, this happens if your server did not respond to the Server List Ping properly, including if it sent malformed JSON.


=== ...the client disconnects after some time with a "Timed out" error ===
The server is expected to send a Keep Alive packet every 1-15 seconds (if the server does not send a keep alive within 20 seconds of state change to Play, the client will disconnect from the server for Timed Out), and the client should respond with the serverbound version of that packet. If either party does not receive keep alives for some period of time, they will disconnect.


=== ...some of the packets I expect to receive seem to be missing or too short ===
You may be misusing the socket API. In particular, it is invalid to assume that the amount of data returned by calls to recv (or equivalent, depending on the API you're using) relates to packet boundaries in any way. There are no "borders" in a TCP data stream, only bytes. Regardless of how any two consecutive packets are sent, the receiver may get one packet, then the other, both at once, half of one, then the rest of both, or any other permutation of buffer sizes adding up to the total size of the packets. The only correct way to know where one packet ends and another begins is the packet length field, and you need to be prepared to handle multiple packets in one buffer, packets split across multiple buffers, etc. (as well as length fields split across multiple buffers!)
Similarly, depending on the API being used, a send call may also not guarantee that its whole input buffer is sent (consult the relevant documentation for details). This may also cause the connection to appear to hang during the login process, since the server will be left waiting indefinitely for the rest of the packet to arrive.
One reason why packets sent separately may arrive at once is Nagle's algorithm, a feature of many TCP implementations intended to improve efficiency particularly for applications making lots of small send calls. It is not the only reason, though, and disabling it should not be seen as a solution to the problem discussed here. Nonetheless, the delays it introduces are detrimental to real-time applications like Minecraft, so the vanilla client and server disable it, and you should too. This is typically done by enabling a socket option called TCP_NODELAY. Especially when disabling Nagle's algorithm, you should group multiple packets sent during the same tick in one send buffer for the best performance.


== Navigation ==