1.5, the release of the Redstone Update, is a major update to Java Edition, released on March 13, 2013, which added a number of new redstone-related blocks and a new decorative block – the block of quartz. Also included was a scoreboard system, a new texture pack format and a lighting engine optimization.
A pre-release version of 1.5 was released on March 7, 2013. This pre-release was later reuploaded, and this reupload was used as the full release of 1.5.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Nether Quartz Ore

Drops 1 Nether quartz item when mined.
Can be smelted in a furnace to obtain Nether quartz.
Can be legitimately obtained with Silk Touch enchantment.
Drop more when mined with Fortune enchantment.
 Block of Redstone

Emits constant redstone signal, the same as a redstone torch.
Works as pushable redstone power source.

 Daylight Sensor

Outputs a signal with a strength corresponding to the intensity of the sun.
Only works with the sun's light (not man-made light such as torches).
Rain affects the sensor's output.

 Hopper

Places and takes out items in hoppers, chests, furnaces, minecart with chests, minecart with hoppers, dispensers, droppers, and brewing stands.
Allows for the automation of many processes collecting drops.
Powering the hopper stops it from taking in items and releasing them.
Redstone signal emitted when a redstone comparator is placed against it directly - signal length depends on its fullness.
1 item gives a signal strength of 1, a third of a stack (21 for items which stack to 64) gives a signal strength of 2.
The number of full stacks × 3 = Signal strength.

 Redstone Comparator

Based on the idea of the capacitor mentioned at Minecon 2012.
It is the same as a repeater, but with 2 inputs.
If input A is stronger or equal to input B, it either repeats the signal or outputs the difference between A and B, so this can be used as an easier way make redstone contraptions like piston doors.
Output is toggleable by right-clicking.
If input A is weaker than input B, then there is no output.
All containers output a redstone signal when a redstone comparator is placed against it directly. The strength of it depends on how full the container is and what disc number is used in a jukebox.
This works with trapped chests as well, meaning it can provide two redstone signals with different causes at the same time.

 Trapped Chest

Gives out a signal depending on the amount of players looking inside.
Large trapped chests can be staggered with large chests to allow more compact storage.
Transmit signal downward through one block. This does not apply horizontally.
Texture is slightly different than a normal chest, with a red stain around the latch.

 Weighted Pressure Plates

Used to detect item drops.
Gold (light) version reaches full strength at 60 items.
Iron (heavy) version reaches full strength at 600 items.
Proportional, so 10 strength signal means twice as many items as a 5 strength signal.

 Activator Rail

Used to trigger minecart with TNT.
Used to stop item passing on minecart with hopper.
Needs to be powered by redstone.
Transmits redstone signal to 8 activator rails far.

 Block of Quartz

Decorative block.

 Chiseled Quartz Block

Decorative block.

 Quartz Pillar

Decorative block.
Pillar quartz blocks can be placed sideways, using the side of the block to place similar to sideways log.

 Quartz Slab

Can be placed upside down.
Decorative block.

 Quartz Stairs

Can be placed upside down.

 Dropper

Places items in containers in front of them, if there is no container it dispenses the item without using it.
A dispenser "shoots" items at the player, while a dropper "throws" items at the player.
Can face all 6 directions, with a different texture when facing up or down.
Needs redstone signal to drop items.
Fires once when the input becomes powered.
Redstone signal emitted when a redstone comparator is placed against it directly - signal length depends on its fullness.

 Smooth sandstone

Implemented; functionally a double slab for now.
 Smooth quartz

Currently unobtainable.
 Multiple snow heights

Fully implemented - previously, a world editor could be used for different heights of snow.
Drops one snowball for every layer of snow.
Each level of snow has its own height collision.
The topmost layer of snow does not have collision, so the player is always slightly sunken in the snow.
Visually, four layers of snow are the same height as a slab. However, five layers of snow have the same collision height as a slab.
For each thin layer of snow crafted, the player loses exactly half the snowballs required to produce it.


=== Items ===
 Nether Brick (item)

Obtained by smelting  netherrack.
Used to make Nether bricks.
 Nether Quartz

Picked up when the player breaks or smelts Nether quartz ore.
Is a crafting ingredient for daylight sensors and redstone comparators.
Can be crafted into decorative blocks.


=== Non-mob entities ===
 Minecart with TNT

The crafting recipe is 1  TNT and 1  minecart.
Triggered by activator rails.
Explodes even more violently the faster it goes.
Doesn't destroy rails and supporting blocks.
Still blows up redstone materials.

 Minecart with Hopper

Crafting recipe is a  hopper on top of a  minecart.
Can only be emptied by passing over a hopper.
Can pick up items from containers when it passes over.

 Minecart with Spawner

Only obtainable with world editors.
Have only the entity not the item.
Uses the same NBT format as a normal monster spawner.


=== World generation ===
 Nether Quartz Ore

Found in the Nether.
There is an average of roughly 70 ores per chunk.
As common as iron ore in the Overworld.


=== Gameplay ===
Scoreboard System

Intended for map makers or server administrators.
Used via /scoreboard command or command block.
Track, edit and display certain objectives per player, such as kill count or health (read-only).
Group players into teams to have the option to assign custom nametag colors, disable friendly fire and allow invisible teammates to be seen.
NBT Related

Minecarts can now carry any block and have any minecart function (TNT, hopper, chest, furnace, ridable).
FallingSand can now be a TileEntity.
Named entities can display their nametag when in nametag range.
Minecarts can now act as spawners.
Entities can now permanently ride other entities.
Can be achieved by using Sethbling's MCEdit filter (Stack Entities). Can be found here
No longer dismount upon reload.
Allows for a lot of customization, including "riding" bats by spawning a bat with a minecart on top, spider jockeys etc.


=== Command format ===
/testfor

Tests for whether specified player is online (testfor [player]), or at specified coordinate and/or in radius (/testfor @p[x,y,z], /testfor @p[r=radius] or /testfor @p[x,y,z,r=radius])
Signal output to any redstone comparators surrounding the command block like testing content of a chest.
/effect

Usage: /effect <player> <effect> [seconds] [amplifier]
To remove effects: /effect <player> <effect> 0
Maximum number of seconds is 1,000,000.
Amplifier increases level of the chosen status effect.
/scoreboard

Used to interact with the scoreboard system.


=== General ===
Minecraft Realms

Currently a preview.
Subscription-based vanilla server rental service provided by Mojang.
Server can't be modded, no Ops can be appointed and a whitelist is mandatory.
Only added to 100 randomly chosen players.
Used on menu screen, when activated.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
 Beacon

Increased range
1 layer: 20 blocks (previously 16)
2 layers: 30 blocks (previously 24)
3 layers: 40 blocks (previously 32)
4 layers: 50 blocks (previously 40)
 Brewing stand 

Redstone signal emitted when a redstone comparator is placed against it directly - signal length depends on its fullness.
 Chest 

Redstone signal emitted when a redstone comparator is placed against it directly - signal length depends on its fullness.
 Detector rail 

Redstone signal emitted when a redstone comparator is placed against it directly - signal length depends on the fullness of the container on the rail.
Added activated detector rail texture.
 Dispenser

Now equip armor to players that are up to 1 block away.
Can place and activate TNT.
Now use bone meal on a crop or sapling in front of them.
Can create fire in front of them with flint and steel, which consumes durability.
They can now face all 6 directions and use a different texture when facing up or down.
No longer fire while updated, instead they fire when their input becomes powered.
Redstone signal emitted when a redstone comparator is placed against it directly - signal length depends on its fullness.
Fences

The hitboxes of fences with inner corners have changed - they now much more closely match the shape of the fence itself, rather than being its convex hull (a solid cuboid).
 Jukebox 

Redstone signal emitted when a redstone comparator is placed against it directly - signal length depends on the disc used.
Lava 

Updated texture from  to .
Flows faster in the Nether.
Can be found as hidden single blocks in the Nether.
 Locked chest

Now uses the missing texture.
 Nether brick block

The crafting recipe is 4  Nether brick items.
Renamed to "Nether bricks" in a later version.
Stairs

Improved lighting.
Stairs no longer prevent sprinting.
 Smooth stone

Supported in a more official capacity; seamless stone slabs have been removed. More information on the corresponding pages.
 Water 

Updated texture slightly.
It is now possible to form a source block above another source block. This prevents players from ruining oceans or rivers with buckets.


=== Items ===
 Bone meal

Nerfed significantly.
Now picks a random stage of growth each time as opposed to automatically pushing them to the final growth stage.
Saplings take 2-4 bone meal to sprout into a tree.
Gives off green particles when used.


=== Mobs ===
All mobs

Mobs no longer walk over rails unless they are pursuing the player.
 Skeleton

Now shoot from 15 blocks away, instead of 10.
They now shoot faster when their target is closer.
Their accuracy changes depending on the difficulty.
 Slimes

Slime spawn rates in swamps now depend on the current moon phase.
 Zombie

Now group upon targets.
They now set players on fire when on fire themselves.
Now are stronger the more damaged they are, dealing more damage (this was removed in 1.6).
Increased player detection range to 40 blocks.


=== World generation ===
Mineshaft 

Now spawn items in minecarts with chests, instead of chests.


=== Gameplay ===
Inventory management

Double click items to fill the stack up as much as possible.
Drag item stacks around to divide them up over the dragged-over slots.
Drag item stacks around with the right mouse button to place one of that stack in each dragged-over slot, if that slot is not occupied already.
⇧ Shift+ double click items in a crafting area to place all items in the inventory.
⇧ Shift+ double click an item stack to move all other item stacks of that kind to that part of the inventory.
Pressing Q while the mouse is over an item in the inventory or a container drops it.
Held armor can be equipped by right-clicking.
Death messages

Include the cause of death, the player the deceased player was fighting at time of death and name of the item used to kill.
Player fell off a ladder
Player fell off some vines
Player fell out of the water
Player fell from a high place
Player was doomed to fall
Player was doomed to fall by Player or Mob
Player walked into fire whilst fighting Player or Mob
Player was burnt to a crisp whilst fighting Player or Mob
Player tried to swim in lava while trying to escape Player or Mob
Player walked into a cactus while trying to escape Player or Mob
Player was shot by Player using Weapon
Player was slain by Player or Mob using Weapon
Player was killed trying to hurt Player or Mob
Renaming

Renamed item containers now display that name when viewing the container's contents.
Renamed command blocks now use their name instead of @ in the chat.
Renamed spawn eggs now give mobs spawned with it that name, which also appear in the death message.
Renamed boss mobs show their name above their health bar.
Nametags are displayed when looking at a renamed entity.
Language files

Language files can be updated via the background downloader.
A new Minecraft release is not needed to update the language files.
Options & title screen

Moved Texture Packs button to the options menu, instead of the title screen.
New chat settings in Multiplayer Settings.
Scale, Focused Height, Unfocused Height and Width is configurable.
Smooth lighting can be changed to "Minimum", "Maximum" and "Off".
Minimum uses the old smooth lighting, and maximum fixes a bug with stairs.
Creative Mode

All potions are categorized.
In Creative mode, players can hit mobs or other players from five blocks away.


=== General ===
Lighting

Engine optimizations.
Support for more realistic lighting.
Lighting interacts correctly with slabs and stairs.
Note: active furnaces still emit light only from the front surface (as before), and black spots have not been fixed.
Texture packs

Textures now use one file per block/item, which are stitched together at runtime.
Each texture can have its own resolution and may be animated by putting the frames underneath each other - a text file is needed to specify frame order and duration.
Special rules apply for water & lava (double size) and compass & clock (non-animatable, frames are used for moving parts).
Vanilla textures are used for missing texture files.
Fonts are changeable as well, even to HD fonts.
Support for HD texture packs.
Server list

The direct connect IP is now saved even after closing the game.
 Enchantments

Fortune now affects apples and potatoes.
Tools enchanted with efficiency now only speed up the mining of blocks that the tool is intended for, (a diamond pickaxe with efficiency no longer breaks dirt or wood faster).


== Removals ==


=== General ===
Distance effects 

Fence block collision boxes no longer lose precision at extreme coordinates.
This is without a doubt linked to the hitbox changes mentioned above.


== Fixes ==
99 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.3.1

MC-16 – TP Bug when you sit in Minecart/boat/riding pig.
MC-32 – Minecart going in a circle will make any minecart close to them go super fast.
MC-49 – Sounds: Fire extinguish sound does not work in survival.
MC-68 – Spawning in the air after creating a new world.
MC-69 – Pigs constantly jumping, when player control them on half slabs and stairs.
MC-122 – Unicode font text shadow misaligned.
MC-127 – Piston extended and retracted at the same time.
MC-136 – Visual glitch on retracting piston.
MC-151 – Pushing TNT with a piston and activating it at the same time duplicates it.
MC-177 – Clocked piston arm turns invisible when exiting game/dying/etc.
MC-184 – (Powered) redstone doesn't update right.
MC-195 – Flowing water still drags the player while flying.
MC-220 – Z-fighting of iron bars / glass panes with the block below / above.
MC-221 – Players and Mobs fall off vehicles and other ridden entities upon world reload, glitching through blocks.
MC-266 – Placing a solid block near TNT and above redstone torch won't update the TNT.
MC-302 – TNT explosion delayed until exiting and re-entering world.
MC-320 – The player could place vines into other vines.
MC-515 – Chest glitch that lets them appear as if they are opened while they are not.
MC-519 – Achievements lost after update.
MC-547 – Arrows don't land properly.
MC-562 – Breeding cows can consume more than one wheat.
MC-592 – Dying stacked leather armor duplicates the armor.
MC-666 – Spawn Protection not working properly.
MC-737 – Map scaling breaks the map sometimes.
MC-835 – In the server log, /say commands performed by the server do not appear to be in the console but do appear to the players.
MC-846 – Dispenser and dropper shooting out when updated.
MC-855 – Graphical piston glitch.
MC-916 – Water does not form source blocks properly on top of existing source blocks.
MC-1086 – [FIXED] Command block/Repeater acting weirdly.
MC-1324 – /difficulty command doesn't produce any messages.
MC-1352 – crowdin.net: Entry entity.WitherBoss.name is missing – German translation is "Withern".
MC-1361 – Self-Powered Redstone Lamp / Breaking a repeater with a piston pointing at a block won't stop the circuit.
MC-1446 – Different timings on pistons in near same environment.
MC-1505 – Grass fades under upside-down stairs (except oak wood ones).
MC-1524 – Baby mob collision boxes are too large.
MC-1570 – Levers have random orientation when placed.
MC-1619 – Infinite rail duplication glitch.
MC-1642 – Minecart noise gets stuck on long cart rides. Bumping, choppy sound.
MC-1680 – Potatoes are not affected by the Fortune enchantment.
MC-1688 – Ender Egg falling render problems.
MC-1775 – Hash size breaks redstone.
MC-1914 – Mob spawners sometimes show up as pig spawners.
MC-1972 – Redstone torch sometimes update instantly (not the North/South quirk).
MC-2196 – Map item placed in item frame experiences Z-fighting.
MC-2257 – Minecraft VERY slow to join/update a server, takes LONG time to login (30 seconds/ 1 min).
MC-2416 – Suffocation/jittering/stuck when spawning in a newly created world.
MC-2503 – Boats and minecarts should not be dropped in Creative.
MC-2512 – Village lamp post floating torches.
MC-2526 – Rain animation glitches through the ceiling.
MC-2582 – Powered/activator rail on slope stays powered/activated.
MC-2711 – Jukebox crashes when breaking with no record inside.
MC-2806 – Anvils will sometimes hit the edge of a block and break instead of being placed.
MC-2974 – Anvil name change cost.
MC-2987 – Can't sprint going up stairs.
MC-2989 – Block "resets" when right clicked with a food item.
MC-3114 – Activated detector-rails moved by a piston keep their activated state.
MC-3169 – Wither In Peaceful spawns very glitchy.
MC-3259 – Long redstone wire does not update/behaves strange in newly loaded chunks.
MC-3287 – Inconsistency with pistons pushing items.
MC-3316 – Armor enchantments (besides Thorns) have no effect on mobs.
MC-3339 – Tile entity crashing bug.
MC-3409 – Single player mode, creative mode, E to select block, select block from grid, E to return to game, game freezess, crash log created.
MC-3449 – Block breaking resets when the item you're holding changes.
MC-3458 – Server crashes if spaces are input on the console.
MC-3597 – Floating minecart tracls when pushed by one-pulse piston.
MC-3662 – Pistons and other Non-Solid blocks.
MC-3887 – Issues with name color in tab list.
MC-3981 – Dispensers no longer dispense item through blocks in the downward direction.
MC-4009 – When a repeater is placed when facing the direction f=0 it flashes for one tick then goes off.
MC-4052 – Powered redstone mechanisms react to change in redstone power level.
MC-4232 – SpawnPotentials list working incorrectly.
MC-4268 – Wither skeletons have wrong hitbox.
MC-4752 – Failed to save player profile.
MC-4770 – Chat Shown: commands only broken - displays all chats but prevents me from submitting commands with "cannot send chat message".
MC-5117 – Minecart does not make sound when riding it.
MC-5214 – All the different Firework stars stack.
MC-5413 – Items with NBT data do not stack correctly due to serialization.
MC-5588 – Swords do not lose durability when used on the Ender dragon.
MC-5621 – Blocks like redstone dust, repeaters, doors, and levers don't drop when the underlying block is pushed by a piston.
MC-5691 – 1.4.6 - Windows 8 64x - Mouse: View issues/Accuracy error?
MC-6131 – Crash upon reloading texture pack.
MC-6223 – Night Vision Potions that are edited to last longer create a potentially seizure-inducing flashing sky background.
MC-6551 – Creative Menu potion values are not the same as when brewed (issue redo).
MC-6699 – Reading Bytes in Minecraft code has a possible flaw.
MC-7196 – Nether cave/tunnel generator produces incorrect/cut tunnels.
MC-7247 – Named tools/armor disappearing from inventory/
MC-7254 – Furnace tile entities reproducing - Internal performance bug.
MC-7344 – Trapdoor is closed when redstone repeater is one block below and powered.
MC-8437 – URL parser does not detect 4 letter TLDs.
MC-8487 – Wither doesn't generate health when in minecart.
MC-8510 – Gamerule doMobLoot doesn't affect xp drops.
MC-8647 – Death messages are not translatable.
MC-9066 – Infinite duration bug.
MC-9259 – FallingSand support for block IDs > 128.
MC-9289 – Hitting mobs with a sharpness I wooden sword and weakness III crashes the game.
MC-10112 – /clear with command blocks not working with armor that has been worn with custom damage values.
MC-10543 – Last direct Multiplayer connection does not get saved.
MC-10956 – Animals can breed over distances up to almost 8 blocks when only separated by fences.
Others 

Fixed "<player> was knocked into the void by <player>" failing to show.


=== Release fixes ===
These fixes occurred between the last development version for 1.5 and the full release of 1.5.

28 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.3.1

MC-454 – Spider Jockey: Spider moves, but Skeleton not.
MC-804 – Piston extension remains after piston is destroyed.
MC-1522 – Fence gate closes when destroying adjacent block.
MC-1523 – Breaking a Dragon Egg in Survival with a high Haste effect crashes the game.
MC-1548 – Fence Glitch.
MC-1594 – Trying to walk from a block with a collision box shorter than 1 block to another block that is also shorter, causes you to momentarily glitch into the ground.
MC-3069 – Map Not Updating.
MC-3513 – Items Droped  [sic] on fences jump around.
MC-3953 – Anvils don't do enough damage.
MC-4560 – Items in equipment slot/crashes if CanPickUpLoot is set to 1 in level.dat/player.dat files.
MC-6060 – Command Block Gamerule Update Problem.
MC-6872 – Upon creating the wither, It leaves ghost blocks.
MC-8624 – Undespawning entities at long range or Unloaded spawners still spawn.
MC-8966 – /clear <player> <item id> Not functioning as expected.
MC-9353 – Compatibility issue with Windows 8 upgrades and minecraft.
MC-9646 – Game crashes when I click "single player" in the main menu.
MC-9877 – Multiplayer, slow chunk loading and or read timeout kick.
From the 1.3.1 development versions

MC-5774 – Blocks being constantly pushed by pistons turn invisible after some time.
MC-5778 – Redstone dust apperance stays powered or unpowered when it's powered state is toggled fast.
MC-8776 – Comparators do not update their output signal.
MC-8923 – Powered mechanisms (except for Dispensers and Droppers) react when they should not.
MC-9065 – Crash when giving item 31 with damage 3.
MC-9115 – Incorrect death messages in non-english languages.
MC-9431 – DisplayTile, DisplayData, DisplayOffset are not saved with MinecartSpawners.
MC-9740 – Mob Spawners Cannot Store Movement Data for Mobs.
MC-10638 – Minecart Glitches Through Block.
MC-10677 – Pistons fire more than once per tick / block teleporting.
MC-10874 – The Esc key doesn't work when you're in the command block menu and when placing signs.


== Trivia ==
Before September 2018, 1.5 was the only release version which was not immediately available to play from the launcher.
This version is mistaken as a snapshot in the launcher despite being a release version.


== References ==


== Navigation ==