This is a list of Java Edition exclusive features. Some of these exclusive features may eventually be added to Bedrock Edition to bring parity.


== General ==
Minecraft Launcher

Supports launching previous versions of Java Edition, including versions dating back to 2009.
Not all versions of Java Edition are available in the Launcher. Additionally, all versions prior to Alpha v1.1.2_01 do not have working sound, as the sound assets for these versions have been removed from the Minecraft servers.
Supports loading custom/modified versions of Minecraft, such as OptiFine, Forge, and Fabric.
Particles

The types of particles and their technical names are displayed below. Particle names in italics are shown when using the "Minimal" particles setting.

Recipes

To save space, some recipes in the recipe book are grouped together and can be selected by pressing the right button on the mouse.
Statistics

A game feature that allows players to track how many times they have completed certain tasks.
Creative inventory
There are 72 items, and 34 more in the Operator Utilities tab, for a total of 106 Java Edition Creative inventory exclusives including operator utilities. The items are as follows:

Luck effect tipped arrow, potion, splash potion, and lingering potion
Four no-effect tipped arrows: arrow of splashing, awkward tipped arrow, thick tipped arrow, and mundane tipped arrow
Spectral arrow
Minecart with furnace
Sweeping Edge enchanted books, all three levels.
Firework star, no color.
Firework rocket, all three flight durations.
Painting, 46 individual pre-defined paintings, plus four additional in operator utilities.
All 34 items in the Operator Utilities tab if "Operator Items Tab" is enabled.


== Gameplay ==
Advancements

Uses the advancement system instead of the achievement system.
Can be used to gain experience.
Breaking

The range of breaking blocks is 5 blocks in Creative mode, and 4.5 blocks otherwise.
Brewing

The potion of Luck cannot be brewed, and can be obtained only by commands such as /give @p minecraft:potion{Potion:"minecraft:luck"} 1, or through the creative inventory.
Chat

Is uncensored by default, though a profanity filter exists for Realms.
Default font uses much more updated version of Mojangles, with implementation of more characters and even certain emojis.
There are also more and different font styles such as Illageralt and they are more up-to-date
Combat

The "attack strength" combat mechanic.
A meter shows up after switching items or attacking.
Damage done depends on the fullness of the meter, with a quadratic reduction (attack does 20%100% of normal damage as the meter fills).
Fills at different rates depending on the new attack speed attribute (see table on the changes to gameplay section for a complete list).
The Haste effect causes the meter to fill faster.
Can be displayed next to the hotbar (left or right based on the player's main hand), under the crosshair or turned off.
Looks like the icon for the old Strength effect icon on the side of the hotbar, or like a dagger under the crosshair.
This is controlled in video settings.
A cooldown animation is displayed of the tool slowly being lifted up, when either first switching to it or after attacking.
Sounds are played when attacked strongly and weakly, as well as sprint-knockback attacks and sweeping attacks.
Actions can be performed as fast as the player can click. This includes eggs, spawn eggs, etc.
Damage

When the player is in third person while suffocating, the view automatically switches to first person.
The player takes damage from falling into the void, even in Creative mode.
Debug screen

By default, can be opened with the F3 key.
Shows the chunk cache, the memory usage, various parameters, the player's map coordinates and a graph that measures the game's current frame rate.
Enchanting

The player can enchant any item with any enchantment in Creative mode with enchanted books, allowing any applied effects to exhibit themselves.
Sweeping Edge enchantment.
Increases sweeping attack damage.
Health

For players, a "You Died!" screen (or "Game Over!" in Hardcore mode) instantly appears upon death. It also displays the player's score.
Death messages are broadcast to everyone upon the death of a player, and to the pet's owner on the death of a pet (wolf, cat, or parrot).
Death message: "<Player> fell from a high place", caused by a fall greater than 5 blocks.
Spectator mode

Can be entered by using F3 + N, or F3 + F4, if commands are enabled.
Players in Spectator mode can teleport to other players using the hotbar.
Players in Spectator mode can click other entities to spectate them, or spectate via /spectate.
Status effect

Summary of effects:


== Blocks ==
Ancient Debris

Can replace basalt, and blackstone when generating.
Buttons

Can be placed in any direction if placed on the top or bottom of a block.
Do not catch on fire.
Carpet

Carpet can be used as a fuel in furnaces, smelting 0.335 items per carpet.
Chest

Bonus chests always contain the same items.
The top three rows for a large chest correspond to the western or northern half and the bottom three to the southern or eastern half.
Holding  Shift and double-clicking while holding an item moves all items of the type clicked on in or out of the chest, to the extent that space is available for them.
A chest can be "locked" by setting its Lock tag using the /data command. If a chest's Lock tag is not blank, the chest cannot be opened except by players holding an item with the same name as the Lock tag's text. For example, to lock a chest at (0,64,0) so that only players holding an item named "Player's Key" can open the chest, use /data merge block 0 64 0 {Lock:"Player's Key"}.
Cobweb

Paintings can be placed on their sides.
Jumping vibrates the player, similar to jumping in a 2-block-high space.
Primed TNT can pass through cobwebs without slowing down if shot through fast enough.
Dispenser and Dropper

Support quasi-connectivity.
Farmland

Transparency: Partial (blocks light)
Mobs smaller than 0.512 cubic block cannot destroy farmland. This includes parrots, rabbits, chickens, bats, ocelots, wolves, cave spiders, endermites, silverfish, baby mobs, small slimes, and small magma cubes.
Piston and Sticky Piston

Cannot push or pull block entities.
Sticky pistons drop blocks when a single redstone tick pulse occurs, rather than retracting them.
Redstone wire runs next to pistons instead of curving into them.
Support quasi-connectivity.
Wool

Can be used as fuel in furnaces, smelting 0.5 items per wool block.


== Items ==
Bone Meal

Has a 5% chance of being dropped by any kind of fish.
Debug Stick

Can be used to change block states.
Dyes

Leather armor, leather horse armor, and wolf armor can be dyed by combining them with dyes in a crafting grid.
Fish

Tropical fish and pufferfish can be fed to ocelots and cats, like raw cod and salmon.
Knowledge Book

A utility item that reveals crafting recipes to the player when used.
Lingering Potion

What makes it a lingering potion as opposed to a splash potion is that their Potion tag stores a minecraft:lingering_potion item.
Spawn Egg

Each spawn egg has a different ID.


== Entities ==
General

All zombies and skeleton varians, and zombified piglins have a chance to wear carved pumpkins or jack o'lanterns on October 31.
Zombies, zombie villagers, and zombified piglins have a chance to spawn other zombies as reinforcements on Hard difficulty.
Newly generated chunks have a chance to generate an initial set of mobs.
Armor Stands

If arms are visible, shields are always placed in the off-hand.
Can be placed by dispensers.
Hitting an armor stand wearing armor enchanted with Thorns deals damage.
Stand on top of powder snow when wearing leather boots.
Have 20 health points.
Arrows

Get visually stuck in players.
Have a unique sound when an arrow shot by a player hits another player.
Axolotls

Regeneration effect given to players is limited to 2 minutes.
Bats

Collision box does not interact with the player or redstone components.
Bees

Stinger is visible on the player after successfull attack.
Blazes

Sink in water and lava.
Boats

Can be destroyed in one hit by weapons that deal more that 4HP damage.
Sink when submerged.
Mobs riding a boat don't despawn.
Falling boats stop on top of other entities.
Breezes

Their eyebrows and surrounding wind are unaffected by Invisibility.
Float upwards in water and lava faster than other mobs.
Camels

Spawn in any light level.
Cats

All cats spawned within the swamp hut always spawn as black.
Each cat has 70% chance of giving a gift when they cannnot reach a player.
Hiss at phantoms that are currently pursuing a player.
Chickens

Drop 10XP experiance orbs if they were part of a chicken jockey.
Cods

Can drop bone meal.
Creepers

The detection range is reduced to half of their normal range (8 blocks) when the player is wearing a creeper head.
Can be ignited with fire charge.
An explosion of a creeper with status effect creates an area effect cloud.
Display

Are used to display blocks, items, or text.
Dolphins

Grant the Dolphin's Grace effect.
Are lured by dropped items.
Elder Guardians

Drop any fish variant.
Drop 0-1 cooked cod or cooked salmon if killed by fire.
Ender Dragon

Drop only 500XP experience points when re-summoned.
Endermen

Staring an aggravated enderman in the eyes causes it to stop moving as long as the player maintains eye contact.
Start shaking when provoked.
Arrows that are unable to teleport bounce off the enderman.
Continue to chase the player regardless of the distance or dimension of the targeted player.
Endermites

Become hostile toward any mob that attacks them.
Evokers

Are given three seconds of the Glowing effect if a bell is rung.
Fish

Drop bone meal instead of bones.
Ghasts

Only target players.
Do not retaliate when attacked by other mobs.
Giants

A giant-sized zombie.
Have no AI, do not fight back when hit.
Can be summoned via commands only.
Glow Squids

Can swim against a current.
Goats

Two screaming goats always produce a screaming baby.
Two normal goats have a 2% chance of producing a screaming baby.
Guardians

Drop any fish variant.
Drop 0-1 cooked cod or cooked salmon if killed by fire.
Do not attack players under the Invisibility effect that wear one or no piece of armor.
Hoglins

An adult knock their target upward.
Retaliate when attacked by a goat.
Illusioners

An unused illager hostile mob.
Attack using a bow and casting spells, such as creating clones of itself.
Can be summoned via commands only.
Interaction

Record the UUID of the last player that left-clicked and right-clicked them.
Items

Can be reeled by fishing rods.
Manequins

Function like a player avatar.
Markers

Entities intended for use in data packs and map-making.
Minecarts

Can be merged by pushing them into each other.
They do not lose speed while traveling on straight rails.
Minecart with Furnace

Can be powered with coal or charcoal.
Can be used to move other minecarts.
Minecart with Monster Spawner

Behaves the same way as normal monster spawners.
Parrots

Can imitate piglins, hoglins and piglin brutes.
Piglins

Retaliate to being rammed by a goat.
Piglin Brutes

Their axe may be enchanted.
Pufferfish

Can spawn in lukewarm ocean and deep lukewarm ocean.
Rabbits

Can spawn in old growth spruce taiga and old growth pine taiga.
Have a hostile variant, The Killer Bunny, that can only be spawned using commands.
Ravagers

Attacked ravager alerts other ravagers in the area to target the attacker.
Can spawn with vindicator riding them.
Shulkers

There is a chance for a new shulker to spawn when a shulker is hit with a shulker bullet.
Silverfish

Can also spawn on stone types they can enter at any light level.
Skeleton, Stray, and Bogged

They use different AI, and strafe side to side when shooting arrows instead of standing still.
Their bow is animated like the player's, with the arrow visibly being drawn back before shooting.
Their detection range is reduced to half of their normal range (8 blocks) when the player is wearing a skeleton skull.
Holding tipped arrows in their offhand causes them to shoot that type of arrow; these arrows are not consumed.
Skeleton Horses

Can be equipped with a saddle.
Snow Golems

Take damage when are in contact with water in savannas.
Leave a trail of snow in any biome.
Spiders

Occasionally spawn with status effects in Hard difficulty.
If a spider tries to go through the world border, it starts climbing the world border instead.
Squid

Can swim against a current.
Striders

Are slightly faster than in Bedrock Edition.
Villagers

A dispenser can be used to equip armor on a villager.
Throw a gift toward a nearby player with the Hero of the Village effect.
If a villager have at least 24 food items, it gives the extra amount to a villager with 4 or fewer.
Display water particles on random occasions as if sweating during a raid..
Clicking use on an unemployed or nitwit causes it to grunt and bobble their head.
Wandering Trader

Wandering traders spawned with a spawn egg via commands do not spawn with trader llamas.
Withers

Regenerate health.
Have a "wither armor" effect if itheir health drops below half, which makes it immune to damage from arrows and thrown tridents.
Wolves

Sit after being tamed.
Zoglins

Adult zoglins attack once every two seconds.
Zombies

Up to 20 zombies may spawn in a village at midnight.
Prioritize players.
Raise their arms up higher when pursuing a player.
Zombie Villagers

Zombie villager spawned in igloo basement is always a cleric.
Zombified Piglins

Non-hostile zombified piglins do not prevent a nearby player from sleeping in a bed.


== World generation ==
General

Solid terrain, structures and biomes can generate all the way to 30 million blocks in a vanilla game, or 2,147 million blocks if the hardcoded 30-million-block limit is removed by modifying the game.
Single Biome world type

Consists of only a single biome.
Large Biomes world type

A world type that has its biome scale set to 6.
Debug mode world type

Used to test block states, block models, and textures.
Biomes

Badlands and eroded badlands
Red sandstone can generate in regular badlands and eroded badlands.
Igloo

If the player smelts a number of items in the igloo furnace, the light generated melts the igloo window, turning the ice into a water source block.
If generates with a villager, it's always a villager without profession.
Strongholds

They generate in rings with the strongholds evenly spaced around the circle until the total of 128 is reached.
Superflat world type

Also allows the player to access the End, which generates as in a normal world, by finding a stronghold or by creating an end portal in Creative mode.
Structures such as villages can generate in superflat worlds.
World boundary

By default, a customizable world border appears to prevent players passing through.


== Commands ==
/advancement

Gives, removes, or checks player advancements.
/attribute

Adds, removes or sets an entity attribute.
/ban

Adds player to banlist.
/ban-ip

Adds IP address to banlist.
/banlist

Displays banlist.
/bossbar

Creates, modifies and lists bossbars.
/data

Modifies the data tag of a block or entity.
/datapack

Manages and lists datapacks, creates empty datapack directory.
/debug

Starts or stops a debugging session.
/defaultgamemode

Sets the default game mode.
/dialog

Manages dialog screens.
/experience

The maximum experience that the player can earn from the /experience command is 2,147,483,647 levels.
/fetchprofile

Fetches the profile of a target player.
/fillbiome

Fills a selected area with a specific biome.
/forceload

Force chunks to load constantly or not.
/item

Manipulate items in inventories.
/jfr

Starts or stops a JFR profiling.
/pardon

Removes entries from the banlist.
/perf

Captures information and metrics about the game.
/publish

Opens singleplayer world to the local network.
/random

Generates a random integer.
/return

Controls the execution of a function.
/rotate

Changes the rotation of an entity.
/seed

Displays the world seed.
/setidletimeout

Sets the time before idle players are kicked.
/spectate

Causes a player in spectator mode to spectate another entity.
/team

Controls teams.
/teammsg

Sends message to all players in a team.
/test

Manage and execute GameTests.
/tick

Controls the tick rate of the game.
/trigger

Sets a trigger to be activated.
/version

Presents the server's game version.
/waypoint

Manages waypoints.
/worldborder

Manages the world border.


== Command format ==
Data Tag

Data tags are used in commands to specify complex data for players, entities, and some blocks.
Target selector

Most selector arguments were renamed and remade, and some behave differently. Others, like distance and level, support a range (1 is exactly one, 1.. is one or more, ..1 is one or less, and 1..10 is between one and ten, inclusive).


== Navigation ==