3D Shareware v1.34 is an April Fools' joke release in 2019, officially called MineCraft 3D: Memory Block Edition. This version has many references to video gaming in the 1990s. This release is a fork of 19w13b.
According to the developers, Minecraft 3D is an old version of Minecraft released on April 1, 1994, of which only a handful of copies were ever made, one of which was discovered "amongst all the rubble" lying in the basement of Mojang's old offices. Despite its supposedly limited release, it was said to feature "cutting-edge technology" that won many awards, although this is all part of the joke.


== Additions ==


=== Items ===
 Red key

According to its lore, it "opens Red doors".
Is dropped by withers.
Can be obtained through barrels.
 Blue key

According to its lore, it "opens Blue doors".
Is dropped by elder guardians.
Can be obtained through barrels.
 Yellow key

According to its lore, it "opens Yellow doors".
Is dropped by ravagers.
Can be obtained through barrels.
 3D

According to its lore, it is "tasty".
Eating it in Survival mode while the hunger bar is less than full shows a picture of the developer cast of Minecraft.
Dropped by nerd creepers summoned through the cheat code "NEEEERD".


=== General ===
Boss mode

Holding B displays a screenshot of an early-1990s DOS-like office work program.
Screen size

The screen size can be increased and decreased with the key F7 and F8 respectively.
A border with the dirt texture decreases or increases, depending on the screen size.
Cheat codes

Typing the following cheat codes (not necessarily in chat and are not case-sensitive) show a message and trigger an action:

Obligatory nightmare mode

Upon loading the game after having selected this in the "Difficulty" menu, the player constantly loses health until death, and the death message displays as "<playername> was too soft for this world".
When a mob/player attacks the player before they die, the death message says "<playername> was too soft for this world (<mob/player> helped)".
Hovering over the button in the menu causes a reddish tint to appear below the screen.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
 Barrel

Has a 2D billboard model with fire above which always faces the player, similar to a fireball.
Explodes:
if closed when empty, otherwise the barrel closing sound stutters endlessly; this explosion does not destroy blocks.
if shot with an arrow; this explosion does destroy blocks.
Generates randomly throughout the world.
Upon generation, has the new "bonus_barrel" loot table, which can contain crossbows named "BFC9000" with an enchantment of Multishot 3–12, and can have various types of enchanted armor and weapons, random effect tipped arrows, and random effect potions (splash and lingering). This is a reference to Doom's BFG 9000.
Can also generate in the Nether and End.
Loot

In Java Edition, each bonus barrel chest contains  items drawn from 2 pools,  with the following distribution: 


=== Mobs ===
Elder guardian

Now drops a blue key.
Ravager

Now drops a yellow key.
Wither

Now drops a red key.
Creeper

Now has an NBT tag called [Byte] d20 (1 = true/0 = false) that determines whether the creeper is a nerd.
Rendering

Most entities render via billboarding, which explains the 2D model of the barrel above.
One exception is the player.


=== Gameplay ===
The game always runs in demo mode, even if no --demo flag is present, which is why no Realms button exists.
Like normal, after a 5 in-game day counter, the player is unable to use, break or place any blocks, at which point attempting to do so shows a message that the demo has expired. Starting a new world requires deleting or renaming the world file and creating a new one.
The maximum level of Multishot is now 12.
Higher levels of Multishot now fire more arrows.
Pop-ups appear randomly saying "Next disc required", similar to the "Minecraft Demo mode" pop-up, telling the player to "Insert disc [random number] into drive A and press ENTER", if the player presses a button besides ↵ Enter, including if they hit numpad Enter, it displays "I said ENTER!" in red text below the message. If the player presses ↵ Enter, the popup disappears.
Entity movement is not interpolated, resulting in all entity motion appearing to run at 20 frames per second. This includes the player.
Upon selecting an "episode" and difficulty, the player is prompted with a traditional Minecraft Demo popup. Clicking "Open registration form" causes the game to create a text document called "ORDER.TXT", containing several fake games and merchandise that the player can "order" in the "MOJANG ORDER SHEET", which appears to ship the purchase to "Mojang PC Repair and Software AB" in Stockholm, Sweden.
The fake games/merchandise are as listed below:
"MineCraft 3D - Immersive virtual-reality mining simulation with intense crafting capabilities! Our freshest and radicalest game!"
"MineCraft 3D: Deeper and darker - Gigantic expansion pack: 3 new ores, 7 new weapons and 11 new enemy variants. Including Buff Crepper  [sic] and Evilshroom II!"
"MineCraft 3D: Mines of North Pole - Obligatory holiday map pack. Ideal for X-mas '94!"
"MineCraft 3D: Strategy Guide - Only the hottest of tips, guides and cheats! Mandatory for every pickaxe maniac!"
"MineCraft 3D: Themed PC-Speaker Set - Collectors' item! Guarantees best sound experience!"
"MineCraft 3D: Sticket  [sic] set - "Better than nothing". Ideal for your younger sibling!"
"[COMMING  [sic] SOON] MineCraft 3D: Action figurine set - You have to acquire them all!"
"MineCraft 2 - Classic 2D Minecraft experience. If you haven't played it yet, shame on you!" (possible reference to the Java Edition 2.0 April Fools' update)
"MineCraft 2: Swedish Parliamentary Elections edition - Finally, the expansion pack you've been waiting for!"
"MineCraft 2: All the guns! - 'Nuff said"
"Fermented Herring Simulator VII - Why do you keep asking for this?"
"Fermented Herring Simulator VII: Thorium Pack - No! Really, stop!"
"Fermented Herring Simulator VII: Scratch and sniff"
"Doom 2 - Completely not related to other games named Doom. This one is about gardening."
The document has several typos that seem to be intentional.
According to the document, "Orders must be received by April 1st 1995 or while stocks last".
Difficulty

When selecting difficulty in the "Select difficulty" menu each mode is displayed differently than is in-game:
Peaceful is "Hello, NoobVille"
Easy is "Filthy casual!"
Normal is "Lemon curry?"
Hard is "eXtreme to the maXxXxX!"
"Obligatory nightmare mode" functions the same as Hard, but the player continually receives damage.


=== General ===
Loading screen

The loading screen at first appears similar to a DOS command prompt, displaying "By 1991–1994 Mojang Repair and Software... Loading Minecraft 3D" and several other pieces of information.
Shortly after this prompt, the screen switches to a pure white background, with a version of the Mojang logo appearing in the center of the screen, floating around, rotating and growing bigger as it gets closer until it comes to a halt at the center of the screen, displaying the company name MOJANG underneath it with () a person saying "Mojang!", similar to how "Sega!" would be said on a Sega start up screen.
A prompt above the loading- and title screens displays the message "UNREGISTERED VERSION" in green text against a red background scrolling from left to right.
Title screen

"Demo mode" is always set to "true".
The "Play Demo World" button is now labeled as "Select episode".
Clicking on it displays a list of five "episodes", one of which is actually accessible, the others "Available in registered version". The list of episodes as follows:
"The player is you!" (the only accessible episode)
"Knee-deep in lava"
This is a reference to Knee-Deep in the Dead, the first episode of the 1993 game Doom. It is implied to take place in the Nether.
"Not just the endermen"
This episode is implied to take place in the End.
"Removing Herobrine"
This episode references a common quote in Minecraft patch notes.
"All these worlds are yours except..."
This is a reference to a line from “2010: The Year We Make Contact”.
The "Reset Demo World" button is now labeled as "ModemPlay(TM)" [sic] and clicking on it displays "Blip blop".
Clicking on it again displays "Nej!" ("No!" in Swedish) until the player reloads the title screen.
The button is always available even if the demo world doesn't exist.
A large image of a rotating 3D logo appears next to the splash text.
HUD

Health and armor are displayed as percentages, with each point of health and armor being represented by increments of 5%.
The display slots are empty in Creative mode.
The player's head and torso is displayed as a portrait, with the head randomly turning left and right.
Hunger is displayed as a raw beef icon on top of a bone.
Only the bone is displayed in Creative mode.
The hotbar is displayed as a 3×3 grid, with the top-left slot being the first and the bottom-right being the ninth.
Experience is no longer displayed.
Horse jump bar is displayed at the top of the screen.
Air bubbles are displayed above the hotbar.
Pause screen

Clicking the "Give Feedback" button shows a message telling players to "send us a postcard" containing the address of the Mojang Studios office.
Exit screen

When exiting the game, an additional screen appears, displaying "Thank you for playing MineCraft 3D!" and imitates a command prompt, which can be closed out by pressing any key.
Sounds

The Mojang jingle heard when starting up this version is a parody of the SEGA jingle, most commonly heard during the early 1990s.
In place of the traditional clicking sound heard normally when clicking on buttons in the menus, a more explosion-like sound is heard.
If subtitles are enabled, clicking any button displays the subtitle "Explosion".
All sounds have been bitcrushed.


== Videos ==


== Issues ==
3D Shareware v1.34 is not supported due to being an April Fools' joke, and therefore issues affecting it are closed as "Invalid" in the issue tracker.


== Trivia ==
This version has the same protocol and data version with 13w42a/b and 19w13b respectively, despite being incompatible.
The only world created in this version is named "MoJang Presents" and saved under "shareware" (seen with other versions).
Reloading the resources via F3 + T briefly shows the game without shaders. Changing language or changing resource packs in the settings also removes the shaders for the duration of the loading screen.
Inside the JAR file, it contains a sound.sys file under the assets/minecraft folder. This file is a Printfox bitmap, containing the image of the developer cast of Minecraft, shown after eating the "3D" item.
Color phrases of the keys (e.g. "Opens Blue doors") are translated to the selected language of the game.
The file loading.png contains the text found when starting/exiting the game. At the bottom of the image, the word "Cheeky!" can be seen, which cannot be seen during normal gameplay.
If the internal server kicks the player from the game, it displays the multiplayer server select screen, which should be normally inaccessible (since this version is in demo mode). This can be triggered manually by using /kick @s.
The text in the loading screen saying "Loading MINECRAF.WAD" is a reference to the file format (.wad) commonly used for storing data in the games Doom and its sequel Doom II. According to this version's backstory, Minecraft 3D was made 5 months after the initial release of the second Doom game Doom II (1994).
The file is named MINECRAF.WAD and not MINECRAFT.WAD per the 8.3 filename convention of the time limiting filenames (excluding the file extension) to 8 characters.
The Red, Blue and Yellow keys are also a reference to Doom and Doom II, which used the three keycard system extensively throughout much of their level designs. The IDKFA code also comes from the Doom games and, much like its functionality here, provides the player with the three keycards when typed in-game. The crossbow named BFC9000 found in barrels shares a similar name to a powerful weapon in Doom called the BFG9000. Knee Deep in Lava is also another reference to the first episode of Doom, Knee Deep in the Dead.
The "Thank you for playing MineCraft 3D!" text on the exit screen is a reference to the "Thank you for playing Wing Commander." message from the game Wing Commander, which was actually an error message that was changed to the thank you message to hide the error.
The name of the sound played when the Mojang logo is shown is called awesome_intro, and the sound file name is called bim_bom.ogg.
Boss Mode is a reference to boss keys, keyboard shortcuts that certain games included in the 90s. When pressed, a boss key would pull up a blank terminal or a fake screen of a productivity program, meant to hide the fact that the user was playing games during work hours.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Java Edition 2.0 (2013)
Java Edition 15w14a (2015)
Java Edition 1.RV-Pre1 (2016)
Java Edition 20w14∞ (2020)
Java Edition 22w13oneBlockAtATime (2022)
Java Edition 23w13a_or_b (2023)
Java Edition 24w14potato (2024)
Java Edition 25w14craftmine (2025)


== References ==


== Navigation ==