24w14potato is an April Fools' Day joke snapshot, supposedly the first and only snapshot for the "Poisonous Potato Update", released alongside the Poisonous Potato Add-On for Bedrock Edition as part of the Poisonous Potato April Fools' Day event in 2024. The update is focused on the poisonous potato, an item that is known for its lack of purpose, and adds the Poisonous Potato Dimension. This snapshot is a fork of 24w12a.
The snapshot was reuploaded at 11:04 UTC to make a change on the rendering system and remove the Potato font; however, the font is still used in the Minecraft Launcher's April Fools version.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Baked potato bricks

Generate in the Potato in the colosseum structure.
Crafted using 4 baked potatoes or smelting a terre de pomme.
 Baked potato brick slab
 Baked potato brick stairs
 Baked potato brick wall
 Charred baked potato bricks
 Charred baked potato brick slab
 Charred baked potato brick stairs
 Charred baked potato brick wall.
 Big brain

Crafted using a zombie head and 8 poisonous potatoes.
Absorbs nearby experience orbs.
When mined, it drops itself and a potato of knowledge with the same amount of experience as the block absorbed.
Dropped potato of knowledge is limited to 1000 maximum experience.
 Block of amber

Uses a darker texture of the block of gold.
Crafted using 9 amber gems.
Can be used for a beacon base.
 Block of corrupted potato peels

Can be crafted using 9 corrupted potato peels.
It emits witch sounds and enchanting table particles.
It randomly spawns poisonous potato items, poisonous potato zombies, endermen, batatos and ghasts. This happens regardless of light level, or presence of solid blocks above it.
 Block of potato peels

Can be crafted using 9 potato peels of the same color in a crafting table.
Some of them generate naturally in the Potato.
 Corrupted peelgrass block

Generates naturally in the corruption and wasteland biomes of the Potato.
If a sheep eats this block, it receives Poison for 1 second.
 Expired baked potato bricks

Generate in the Potato in the colosseum structure and potato villages.
Crafted from 2 poisonous potatoes and baked potatoes.
 Expired baked potato brick slab
 Expired baked potato brick stairs
 Expired baked potato brick wall
 Floatater

When powered by a redstone signal, it flies smoothly in the direction of the sticky side after 1 tick.
A floatater structure is composed of all connected blocks in a 32×32×32 area and is stopped if any of these blocks are making contact with a block outside of it.
The size limit of the area it checks can be controlled by the game rule floataterSizeLimit.
A block is considered connected if its outline box is touching that of a block being pushed by the floatater, not the floatater itself unless it's on the sticky side.
Tile entities placed as a part of the floatater structure breaks off when the floatater begins moving, even if not pushed by anything.
Blocks connected to them are still moved.
When multiple floataters facing the same direction are powered at the same time, the speed of the connected structure increases depending on how many floataters there are.
Floataters can move blocks normally broken by piston pushing or those that cannot be moved, i.e. melons and redstone dust (not inclusive of tile entities such as shulker boxes and comparators, which break off when pushed).
When a floatater contraption is moving, it can be stood on and push other entities. However, when moving into other moving floataters they go through each other.
It flies until one of the blocks at the front of the floatater structure hits another irreplaceable block.
 Floatato

Generates as the clouds in the Potato dimension.
Can be placed mid-air 2 blocks away from the player, instead of having to be placed on another block.
 Frying table

Fries potato peels, producing hash browns.
Can also cook normal potatoes, as if they were cooked on a campfire.
Mobs standing on the table play the damage animation, even though they don't take any actual damage.
The player does not even play the damage animation alongside not taking damage.
 Gravtater

Generates naturally in the Potato.
Affected by gravity.
Is essentially the poisonous potato version of sand, and can replace sand in most uses.
 Pedestal

Can be found in the Overworld (in villages, ruined portatols, and strongholds), as well as in the Potato dimension (in potato villages, ruined portatols, and colosseums).
Used to activate the potato portal.
When a poisonous potato is used on it, the potato portal generates above the pedestal.
 Peelgrass block

Generates naturally in the Potato.
Can be peeled with a potato peeler to obtain terre de pomme.
Is essentially the poisonous potato version of grass block.
 Poisonous mashed potato

Generates when players wearing poisonous pota-toes would take fall damage.
Protects mobs and players from fall damage.
Gives mobs and players the new Sticky effect.
Can be stacked like snow layers.
 Poisonous potato block

Generates naturally as part of potato geodes in the Overworld and the Potato.
Can be compressed more, becoming compressed poisonous potato blocks.
Even the compressed blocks can be compressed further, becoming double/triple/quadruple compressed poisonous potato blocks.
 Quadruple Compressed Poisonous Potato Block, with 39 letters, is the longest block name in the game, even more than the waxed weathered cut copper stairs.
 Poisonous potato cutter

Functions like a stonecutter, except it can cut poisonous potatoes only into poisonous potato slices or poisonous potato sticks.
 Poisonous potato head block

Does not seem to have a use or a way to obtain in Survival.
 Poisonous potato headpiece

Rarely drops from poisonous potato zombies.
Can be worn on the head.
While on the head, all poisonous potato zombies are neutral toward the player.
 Poisonous potato ore

Generates naturally in the Overworld, with a triangular distribution ranging from Y=56 down to Y=-24.
The height at which the ore can be found the most frequently is Y=16.
If this ore generates inside deepslate, it is replaced by deepslate poisonous potato ore.
Drops a small amount of poisonous potatoes when mined.
 Deepslate poisonous potato ore
Generates naturally in the Overworld, in lieu of poisonous potato ore when generating inside deepslate instead of stone.
 Poison farmland

Generates naturally in the Potato and can be found in the potato villages.
Is essentially the poisonous potato version of farmland.
 Poison path

Generates naturally in the Potato and can be found in the potato villages.
Is essentially the poisonous potato version of dirt path.
 Potato battery

Can be toggled on or off by using it.
While on, it emits a redstone signal of 15.
When a living entity stands on the block, and the block is on, the block produces spark particles and the entity is constantly damaged, losing 1HP for every 2 times damaged.
A player that dies to this block receives the following death message: <player> was killed by a bad-tempered potato
 Potato bud

Generates naturally in the Potato.
Acts like regular pointed dripstone.
 Potato flower

Generates naturally in the Potato.
 Potato portal

Allows the player to enter the Potato dimension.
Has an item form with a very large and misshapen model that visually shows part of it outside the slot it is in.
Works like a nether portal, requiring players in Survival to stand inside it for a few seconds before it transports them to the Potato dimension.
 Potato refinery

Can extract potato oil from potatoes or poisonous potato oil from poisonous potatoes.
Can be used to apply potato oil to items and lubricate, making them slide when thrown. More potato oil increases the sliding factor, with diminishing returns.
Due to floating-point imprecision, if an item is lubricated 55 times, its sliding factor reaches 1. If that item is then thrown, it never stops sliding in the direction it was thrown until it hits an obstacle, which makes it only slide along one axis.
Potato wood set:

Part of the potato trees which cannot burn.
 Potato sprouts
Can be grown into a potato tree using bone meal.
 Potato leaves
 Potato pedicule
Generates naturally in the Potato on potato trees, in potato villages and potato mineshafts.
 Potato fruit
Emits light.
Restores 6 () hunger when consuming, and inflicts Poison for 2 seconds.
 Potato stem
 Potato planks
 Potato stairs
 Potato slab
  Potato sign
  Potato Hanging Sign
 Potato button
  Potato door
 Potato fence
 Potato fence gate
 Potato Pressure Plate
 Potato trapdoor

Potone family of blocks:

Stone-like blocks that generate as the stone part of the Potato dimension.
Can be mined only with a hoe.
 Potone
 Potone slab
 Potone stairs
 Potone wall.
 Taterstone
 Taterstone Slab
 Taterstone Stairs
 Taterstone Wall
 Potone variants of the 7 existing Overworld ores.
 Resin ore
Drops toxic resins, seemingly all with air bubble impurities but with varying clarities when mined.
 Powerful potato

Generates naturally in the Potato with weak roots.
If placed by player, gradually generates strong roots.
 Strong roots
Can also generate naturally in the potato villages.
 Weak roots
Can also generate naturally in the Potato.
 Terre de pomme

Generates naturally in the Potato.
The only block which has a French name. It translates to "dirt of apple". It's a joke on "pomme de terre", "potato" in French translating roughly to "apple of dirt".
Can be obtained by peeling a peelgrass block with a potato peeler.
Is essentially the poisonous potato version of dirt.
 Vicious potato

Generates naturally in the hash biome in the Potato.
Randomly selects an entity in its range, then shoots a projectile at the entity, which can damage the entity if the projectile hits.
Can also be activated with redstone.


=== Items ===
 Amber gem

Used as currency for the villagers.
Can be obtained by processing a "jewel clarity" toxic resin in a fletching table.
Is an armor trim material for a smithing table.
Is a reference to and a recolor of the ruby, an early and scrapped version of the emerald.
 Corrupted potato peels

A corrupted variant of potato peels.
Used to craft a block of corrupted potato peels.
Cannot be turned into hash browns like regular potato peels.
 Dent

Drops from plaguewhale slabs.
A trident can be crafted using 2 sticks and 3 dents.

 Enchanted golden poisonous potato

A food item with the same nutrition as a enchanted golden apple.
Crafted using 8 gold blocks and a poisonous potato.
This is a reference to the old crafting recipe of the enchanted golden apple.
When eaten, it gives the player the following effects:
Poison VIII for 20 seconds.
Absorption IV for 2 minutes.
Luck V for 5 minutes.
Bad Luck V for 5 minutes.
 Golden poisonous potato

A food item with the same nutrition as a golden apple.
Crafted using 8 gold ingots and a poisonous potato.
When eaten, it gives the player Poison II for 5 seconds and Absorption for 2 minutes.
 Hash browns

Obtained by cooking potato peels on a frying table.
Restores 2 () hunger when consuming.
 Hot potato

Can be obtained by throwing a poisonous potato into lava or by combining a baked potato and a lava bucket in a crafting table.
Deals a gradually increasing amount of fire damage every game tick a player stores the item in their inventory. The damage amount starts at 0HP and increases to 1HP after 20 game ticks, then increases by 1HP every 40 game ticks after that, up to a maximum of 5HP as the player continues to hold the hot potato.
The amount of time each player has held a particular Hot potato is stored along with that item's NBT data. This timer can be reset by moving the hot potato from one slot of the player's inventory to another.
Mobs do not take damage from holding the hot potato.
If a player dies by holding this item, they receive a new death message: <player> held the hot potato for too long.
This death message ends in a period, unlike every other death message.
 Lashing potato

Functions as a grappling hook, launching a poisonous potato at a great range and reeling the player in on landing.
Has 100 durability and is crafted with a toxic beam and a poisonous potato block.
Makes the player immune to fall damage while attached to a block.
Grants an immense speed boost when reeling in while flying with an elytra or poisonous polytra.
 Poisonous polytra

Crafted with 4 phantom membranes and one poisonous potato.
Note: Phantoms are more common in the corruption biome
Used like the elytra, and has the same functionality.
Can be used with the lashing potato to easily traverse the Potato.
 Poisonous potato chestplate

Can be crafted in a crafting table with 2 poisonous potatoes and 6 potato peels.
Every time the player would lose a hunger point, the chestplate gets used instead.
When the chestplate is used, it plays an eating sound effect and loses 40 durability.
The chestplate starts with 240 durability, so it can be used only 6 times.
Can be peeled off an entity using a potato peeler.
 Poisonous potato hammer

A weapon, which can be crafted using a blaze rod and a poisonous potato.
Has an attack damage of 11 and an attack speed of 6, the highest in the game.
Is naturally enchanted with Knockback X.
Using it to damage a mob has a chance of throwing a lingering potion of Poison.
 Poisonous potato oil

Can be extracted from a poisonous potato in a potato refinery.
Gives the Poison effect for ten seconds and the It's very slippery effect for 1 tick.
Can be smelted into toxic resin.
Apart from the separate item, this item also appears as a new potion variant in the Creative inventory, including a splash potion, lingering potion and tipped arrow variants.
 Poisonous potato plant

 
Found in every bonus chest that generates in this version.
When a potato crop drops a poisonous potato, there is a chance for it to be replaced with the poisonous potato plant.
Can also be obtained by killing poisonous potato zombies.
When the player hovers their cursor over the item, or holds the item, its texture changes to a poisonous potato wearing Groucho glasses.
Can be equipped to the player's helmet slot.
The potato plant then appears in the top left corner of the screen and provides dialogue that guides the player throughout the main parts of the snapshot.
Cannot be eaten or planted.
After clicking the item 4 or more times, the following description appears in the tooltip: On a closer inspection this Poisonous Potato is a plant.
 Poisonous potato slices and sticks

Obtained by cutting a poisonous potato on a poisonous potato cutter.
Restores 1 () hunger when consumed.
 Poisonous potato chips
Obtained by smelting poisonous potato slices.
Restores 8 () hunger when consumed.
 Poisonous potato fries
Obtained by smelting poisonous potato sticks.
Restores 10 () hunger when consumed.
 Poisonous pota-toes

Can be crafted in a crafting table, with 2 poisonous potatoes and 2 potato peels.
After falling into the void in the Potato and returning to the Overworld, the player has them equipped automatically on the boots slot. If the player is already wearing boots, the boots will be destroyed and replaced by poisonous pota-toes.
Can be equipped like armor, on the boots slot.
When worn, every time the player would take fall damage, some poisonous mashed potatoes are placed around the impact preventing the damage and the boots instantly break.
That also seems to be the case in the creative mode but the boots don't break.
Unlike other types of armor, it can be stacked up to 64.
 Potatiesh, Greatstaff of the Peasant

Dropped by the mega spud on death.
Can be used in a composter, granting the Good Plant advancement.
Used to place a potato portal block.
If a player hasn't completed the Non Plus Ultra advancement and tries to use it, an explosion is created at the player's position and the following chat message is sent: "<player> was unworthy of Potatiesh, Greatstaff of the Peasant
If a player is in Creative mode, they can use the item to place a potato portal block, even if they haven't completed the required advancement yet.
Its resource location is minecraft:potato_staff.
This is a reference to the legendary staff in World of Warcraft called "Atiesh, Greatstaff of the Guardian".
 Potato eye

Crafted using a poisonous potato in a crafting table.
Works and functions like an eye of ender.
The item leading the players to the nearest colosseum in the Potato or the nearest ruined portatol in the Overworld.
 Potato of knowledge

Obtained by breaking big brains which consumed experience.
Doesn't restore any hunger when consuming; instead, gives the amount of experience it stored.
Doesn't give a Poison effect to the player despite using the regular poisonous potato texture.
 Potato oil

Can be extracted from a potato in a potato refinery.
Gives the It's very slippery effect for 1 tick.
Can be used to lubricate items in a potato refinery.
Apart from the separate item, this item also appears as a new potion variant in the Creative inventory, including a splash potion, lingering potion and tipped arrow variants.
 Potato peeler

Is crafted using a stick and shears.
Does 2 base attack damage, but does 10 extra damage to potato mobs.
Has an extremely high attack speed of 5.
Can be used on peelgrass blocks, potato sheep and blocks of potato peels to drop potato peels.
Potato mobs when being killed with the potato peeler can drop potato peels.
Can be used on a player wearing a poisonous potato chestplate, breaking the chestplate and causing that player to shoot 8 potato peels in random directions.
 Potato peels

Have 16 different colors (there are no white peels, but there is a default uncolored variant).
Can be used to craft a block of potato peels.
If fried in a frying table, they turn into hash browns.
Potions:

 Potion of Sticky
Gives the Sticky effect.
 Potato oil (potion)
Gives the It's very slippery effect.
 Poisonous potato oil (potion)
Gives both poison and It's very slippery effects.
These potions cannot be obtained in survival.
Spawn eggs:

 Batato spawn egg
 Mega spud spawn egg
 Plaguewhale slab spawn egg
 Poisonous potato zombie spawn egg
 Toxifin slab spawn egg
Tipped arrows:

 Arrow of Deadly Oilyness
 Arrow of Oilyness
 Arrow of Sticky
These tipped arrows cannot be obtained in survival.
 Toxic beam

Drops from toxifin slabs.
Used to craft the lashing potato.
 Toxic resin

Obtained by mining resin ore, smelting poisonous potato oil, processing a toxic resin and a feather in a fletching table or as a drop from toxifin slabs.
Has two varying attributes, namely clarity and impurities (Example: clouded clarity, fishy impurities).
When inputted into a fletching table with the matching clarity and impurities attributes (as seen within the fletching table's UI) a new toxic resin is output. The toxic resin's clarity and impurity is dependent on that of the toxic resin used as the input (example: an abysmal clarity resin outputs a blemished clarity resin).
Venomous potato

Appears to be a regular potato. However, it doesn't stack with regular potatoes.
Makes a spider hissing sound, poisons the player and changes its texture and name when the player attempts to eat it, but it is not consumed.
Its resource location is minecraft:snektato.


=== Enchantments ===
 Potatofication

Can be applied to axes, pickaxes, shovels, hoes and shears.
After breaking a block with an item that has Potatofication it drops potatoes and poisonous potatoes based on the enchantment level.
Level I - 1 potato/poisonous potato
Level II - 2 or 4 potatoes/poisonous potatoes
Level III - 5 or 9 potatoes/poisonous potatoes
Level IV - 8, 10 or 16 potatoes/poisonous potatoes
Level V - 13, 17 or 25 potatoes/poisonous potatoes


=== Effects ===
 Sticky

Mobs with this effect can climb up or slide down at the edge of a block.
Players with this effect create yellow footsteps when walking.
 It's very slippery

Has no effect.
Has no icon texture, so it shows the missing texture as its icon.


=== Paintings ===

Added 7 new paintings by the "artists" Mr Potato and Cris B:


=== Mobs ===
Added potato variants of the existing mobs in The Potato:

 Armadillo (only has a unique texture for its curled up shell)
 Bee
 Bogged
 Chicken
 Cow
 Creeper
 Enderman
 Giant
 Husk
 Pig
 Sheep
 Skeleton
 Spider
 Stray
 Villager
These mobs, as well as the batato, poisonous potato zombie, and mega spud are known as potato mobs.
 Batato

Modified version of the bat, with a poisonous potato replacing the body and head of the mob.
Drops a poisonous potato.
 Mega spud

Modified boss version of the slime with a potato-themed texture and rectangular shape.
Found in the colosseum structure.
Shoots fireballs at the player.
Starts with the name "Mega Spud, Potatolord of the Fried Legion".
Has 10 phases in which it becomes invulnerable, gains a forcefield, and summons a number of minions. When all minions are dead, it becomes vulnerable again and the forcefield is removed.
First phase: Summons a chicken. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Clucky Contaminator".
Second phase: Summons 2 armadillos. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Toxic Talon Talus".
Third phase: Summons 3 poisonous potato zombies. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Venomous Vagabond".
Fourth phase: Summons 4 spiders. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Arachnid Administrator".
Fifth phase: Summons 5 strays. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Spud Scavenger Stray".
Sixth phase: Summons 6 creepers. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Creeper Kingpin".
Seventh phase: Summons 7 piglin brutes. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Poisonous Piglin Potentate".
Eighth phase: Summons 8 ghasts. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Ghastly Ghoulmaster".
Ninth phase: Summons 9 plaguewhale slabs. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Plaguewhale Patriach".
Tenth phase: Summons 10 giants. Changes its name to "Mega Spud the Giant Green Globule".
Hitting it once triggers the first phase.
After each phase, the hitbox and model of the entity gets smaller (except for the 9th phase).
Drops Potatiesh, Greatstaff of the Peasant.
 Plaguewhale slab

Modified version of the elder guardian with a purple body and a green eye.
Half the size of an elder guardian.
Constantly inflicts the Poison effect for 1 second while it is targeting a player with the laser. When charged, the Wither effect is inflicted for 3 seconds.
Can mount other nearby plaguewhale slabs.
Drops dents.
 Poisonous potato zombie

Modified version of the zombie with a potato-themed texture.
The regular zombie sounds have been replaced with various sounds of someone saying "potato", presumably pitched down.
Attacks any zombie mob, including zombies, zombie villagers, husks, drowned and zombified piglins.
Additionally, if it kills any of the mentioned mobs, it turns them into a poisonous potato zombie.
 Toxifin slab

Modified version of the guardian with an orange body and green spikes.
Half the size of a guardian.
Constantly inflicts the Poison effect for 1 second while it is targeting a player with the laser. When charged, the Wither effect is inflicted for 2 seconds.
Can mount other nearby toxifin slabs.
Drops toxic beams and toxic resin (with fishy impurities).


=== World generation ===


==== Dimension ====
 The Potato

Contains the 5 new biomes listed below.
Contains 4 new structures: potato villages, potato mineshafts, ruined portatols, and colosseums.


==== Biomes ====
Added biomes for The Potato dimension:
Arboretum

A lush biome covered in different types of trees, huge mushrooms and "park lanes".
Corruption

A forest biome full of potato trees and potato bud spikes with corruped peelgrass blocks as ground.
Fields

A grassland-type biome in which the ground is mostly covered in peelgrass blocks, poison farmland and poison paths.
Hash

A wasteland-type biome that is covered in gravtater, and the only plants that grow here are potatoes. Besides those, dead bushes and blocks of lime potato peels (imitating cacti) can be found on the surface.
Wasteland

A corrupted grassy biome full of pools of water with slime blocks, hills made from gray potato peels and blobs of ancient debris.


==== Features ====
 Colosseum 

Generates in all biomes of the Potato.
Houses the mega spud, the plaguewhale slab and the toxifin slab.
Made up of variety of baked potato bricks and other potato blocks.
Contains a maze underneath the central section, leading to 4 toxifin slab spawners.
 Hash well

A potato variant of the desert well, found in hash biome.
 Potato geode

A potato variant of the amethyst geode, found underground throughout the Potato dimension and the Overworld.
 Potato mineshaft

Generates in all biomes of the Potato below Y=60.
Made up of potato planks and stems, and are held by potato pedicules, that connect them to the terrain above.
Spawns cave spiders through monster spawners.
 Potato tree

A tree variant, native to the Potato.
Grows in large numbers in corruption biome and more rarely in arboretum.
Can be grown from potato sprouts.
 Potato village

Generates in arboretum, corruption, and fields biomes.
Made up of variety of taterstone, baked potato bricks, potato wood type, potato peel blocks and other blocks.
Numerous pedestals are spread around the village.
Small stations containing frying tables and glowing item frames with a potato appear in the village.
Sometimes mazes made up of potato leaves appear in the village.
 Ruined portatol

Generates in all biomes of the Potato.
Made up of variety of taterstones and baked potato bricks.
Naturally generates a pedestal.


=== Gameplay ===
Advancements


=== Others ===
Statistics

Added the "Potato" utterances statistic.
Increases every time the player types "potato" in the chat.
If a message contains "potato" several times, it increases once for each one.
If it reaches 99, the advancement "Sweet Potato Talker" is granted to the player.
Added the Potato Quest Time statistic.
Starts counting when the player puts the poisonous potato plant on the head, and stops when the completion time shows on the screen.
Added the Times Peeled statistic.
Increases every time the player is peeled by another player while wearing a poisonous potato chestplate.
Rarity

Added the Potato rarity.
Displays as a green item name: Potato
Applied on these items: poisonous potato plant, Potatiesh, Greatstaff of the Peasant, big brain, poisonous polytra, powerful potato, vicious potato, and mega spud spawn egg.
Controls

Added "Potato" to key binds.
It is bound to ' by default.
When the key is pressed, it outputs between 1-6 potato emojis  (🥔) in the chat.


=== Command format ===
Item stack component

Added the following item stack components:
[Int] xp: The amount of experience saved in a potato of knowledge.
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] snek: The component that saves data for a venomous potato.
[Boolean] revealed: Whether the venomous potato has revealed itself to not be a normal potato.
[Boolean] hovered: If the item is in the hotbar, true if the player is holding the item; if the item is in the inventory, true if the player's mouse pointer is hovering over the item.
[Int] clicks: The number of times the player has clicked on a poisonous potato plant in the inventory.
[Int] views: ​[more information needed]
[Int] undercover_id: ​[more information needed]
[Long Array] contacts_messages: ​[more information needed]
[Long] secret_message: ​[more information needed]
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] lubrication: How lubricated the item is.
[Int] level: The level of lubrication.
[Boolean] explicit_foil: Whether the item should always have an enchantment glint.
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] heat:
[Int] heat
[Int] slot
[Int Array] owner
[NBT Compound / JSON Object] potato_bane: The extra damage to be dealt to potato mobs.
[Float] damage_modifier: The amount of extra damage.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Fletching table

Now has an interface, titled "Fletching <quality> Clarity, <impurities> Impurities into <new quality> Clarity, <new impurities> Impurities"
The top of the interface slowly stretches out to fit the title
A feather can be inserted to the left.
One or more toxic resins that match the quality and impurities of the first half of the title can be inserted and are "processed" into toxic resins of clarity and impurity described by the second half.
The resulting impurity is not visible until after the fletching table successfully processes its first resin, being replaced by "¯\_(ツ)_/¯"
Processing a "Jewel Clarity" toxic resin results in an amber gem.


=== Items ===
Poisonous potatoes

Stack limit increased to 99.
Suspicious stew

Can be crafted with a Poisonous Potato
Restores 6 () hunger when consuming.
Grants one of the following effects randomly for up to 60 ticks (3s): Mining Fatigue, Haste, It's very slippery, Luck, Bad Luck, Slow Falling, Hero of the Village, or Glowing.


=== Mobs ===
Giants

Have AI and can spawn naturally (during the battle with the mega spud).
Now deal 10HP damage on Easy, 20HP × 10 damage on Normal, and 30HP × 15 damage on Hard.
Attacks now have extra knockback.
Villagers

Now accept amber gems instead of emeralds, and give poisonous potatoes instead of emeralds.
Have a new skin type, featuring yellowish-green clothes, which is used when the villager is spawned in one of the 5 biomes found in the Potato.
This is separate from the special texture their head uses when they are inside the Potato; if a villager is spawned in the Potato and teleported to the Overworld, the clothes remain but not the head texture.
When the Villager Trade Rebalance experiment is enabled, the following trades are changed for villagers with this skin type:
Librarians sell enchanted books with Multishot, Impaling or Loyalty as their normal books, and Luck of the Sea II as their special book.
Cartographers have no second trade unlocked at apprentice level.
Armorers have the same trades as they would if they were plains villagers.


=== Gameplay ===
Advancements

"Husbandry" can now be achieved by eating any of the new food items.
"Adventure" can be achieved by killing any of the new mobs.
"A Balanced Diet" now requires eating poisonous potato chips, fries, slices and sticks.
Eating other of the new foods is not required.
"Monster Hunter" can now be achieved by killing a toxifin, plaguewhale, or poisonous potato zombie. "Monsters Hunted" now requires these three mobs.
Killing mega spud does not count and is not required.
Bonus chest

Now turned on by default.
The loot has been changed to include potatoes, poisonous potatoes, bone meal, an iron hoe, a poisonous potato plant, and a water bucket. ​[more information needed]

Creative inventory

Added "Potatoes" tab at the right of the search tab.
It slightly overlaps with the search tab, and appears to just be hanging on.


=== General ===
Logo

Subtitle now reads "POISONOUS POTATO".
The "Minceraft" easter egg has been removed.
Gamemode switcher

The grass icon for Creative mode has been changed to a peelgrass block.
Panorama

Replaced panorama to feature additions of the snapshot.
Splashes

The original splash texts have been replaced with the following entries:
Stick 'em in a stew!
You know what they call a potato in Paris?
The starch must flow!
By potatoes, for potatoes
Optimized for potato PC's
Potato quality!
Faster than other brands of potatoes
My life is potato
I have potato blood in my veins
Who says you can't mine a potato?
Fear the Mega Spud
Po-tech-toes from the future!
Whatever you do, don't parboil
Become one with the spud
Can you eat the skin?
Old spud, new tricks
Don't be a hater, have a tater
Somewhat starchy
Try eating it raw
They grow underground, like diamonds
This is based on the ore added in this update, poisonous potato ore
Potato, potato?
Dude, Where's My Potato?
Solanum tuberosum
Potato! Potato! My kingdom for a 'tato!
It's a perennial, duh
The french fry was invented by Steve in 1805
It's tater time!
A potato a day keeps the doctor away
Oh hi! So, how are you holding up? BECAUSE I'M A POTATO!
This is a reference to Portal 2, where GLaDOS says the same line.
Sliced potatoes and limes
Crispy
Boil 'em mash 'em stick 'em in a Suspicious Stew
This is a reference to The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers, where Sam says the same line (with "Stew" instead of "Suspicious Stew") to Gollum in the movie.
You seem to have a potato chip on your shoulder
Dinnerpotato
Banners and mash
Food for thought
eau de potato
I love the smell of potatoes in the morning
We got feels for the peels
! (🥔!)
! (🥔🥔!)
! (🥔🥔🥔!)


== Trivia ==
This is the first joke version that does not include the "Java Edition" subtitle on the main menu.
There are two references to "The Treachery of Images."
Gnembon revealed that generative AI was used for a lot of the code, textures, and names for this version during a Q&A.
A "special" version of the End Poem can be seen if the player falls into the void of the Potato dimension. After the "Potato Poem" finishes, the player returns to their spawn point and is launched into the air, getting the "Sticky" effect.


== Videos ==


== Gallery ==


=== Screenshots ===


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==