20w06a (labeled as Snapshot 20w06a in-game) is the first snapshot for Java Edition 1.16, released on February 5, 2020, which adds several new Nether Update features, like new biomes, the /locatebiome command, and fixes some bugs. This is the first snapshot released in 2020.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Ancient Debris

Can be found throughout the Nether at any altitude, though it is much more common at lower levels.
Can be refined into a netherite scrap by smelting in a furnace or blast furnace.
Same blast resistance as obsidian.
As an item, it floats on lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
A diamond pickaxe or better is required to mine it.
Always spawns covered by lava or blocks on all sides.
 Basalt

Makes up basalt pillars.
Generates in soul sand valleys.
Can be placed directionally, similarly to logs.
 Block of Netherite

Can be crafted with 9 netherite ingots.
A decorative block.
As an item, it floats on lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
Same blast resistance as obsidian, but is movable with pistons.
 Crimson and Warped Stems

Comprise the trunks of huge fungi.
Have animated textures.
Have a top texture similar to regular log blocks.
Can be placed directionally, similarly to logs.
Does not burn.
 Have respective stripped variants.
 Crimson and Warped Planks

Don't burn.
Crafted from the respective stem.
Can be used to craft respective slabs, stairs, fences, fence gates, pressure plates, buttons, doors, and trapdoors.
 Crimson and Warped Signs

Work like normal wooden signs.
Cannot be crafted in this snapshot.
Currently unobtainable in Survival mode.
 Crimson and Warped Fungi

Generate in crimson and warped forests, respectively.
Can be placed on dirt, coarse dirt, farmland, podzol, nylium, soul soil, and grass blocks.
Bone meal can be used on fungi to grow it into the respective huge fungi when placed on nylium.
Unlike mushrooms, fungi cannot spread.
 Crimson and Warped Nylium

Resemble grass blocks.
Can be spread to netherrack by using bonemeal on a netherrack block next to a nylium block.
 Crimson and Warped Roots

Foliage that generates in both crimson and warped forest biomes, as well as soul sand valleys.
 Nether Sprouts

Foliage that generates in warped forests.
 Shroomlight

Emits a light level of 15, similarly to glowstone.
Can be mined with any tool, but axes are the most efficient.
Generates as a part of huge fungi.
 Soul Fire

Blue variant of fire.
Fire lit on soul soil turns into soul fire regardless of dimension.
Burns forever, similar to regular fire on netherrack and magma blocks.
Generates naturally in the soul sand valley biome in the Nether.
Deals damage at a rate of 2HP per second as opposed to the 1HP per second of regular fire.
Does not extinguish when in the rain.
 Soul Fire Lantern

Gives off a light level of 10.
Crafted similarly to a normal lantern, using a soul fire torch instead of a normal torch.
 Soul Fire Torch

Gives off a light level of 10.
Crafted similarly to a normal torch, with soul soil being placed under the stick.
 Soul Soil

Generates in the soul sand valley, alongside conventional soul sand.
Fire lit on soul soil is soul fire.
The player does not sink and is not slowed when walking on soul soil.
 Warped Wart Block

A variation of the nether wart block.
Generates as a part of huge warped fungi. Sometimes generates in the ground replacing the warped nylium in warped forest biome.
 Weeping Vines

Generates in the crimson forest.
Is placed on the bottom of a block and grows downward.


=== Items ===
 Netherite Boots, Chestplate, Helmet and Leggings

Crafted with a netherite ingot and the respective diamond item.
Don't burn in lava or fire as items or when worn (players equipping netherite armor, however, can still take fire damage).
Float in lava.
Grant one additional point of knockback resistance per item.
Tougher than diamond armor.
Have higher durability and enchantability than diamond.
 Netherite Sword, Axe, Pickaxe, Shovel, and Hoe

Crafted with a netherite ingot and the respective diamond item.
Float in lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
Have higher durability, mining level, breaking multiplier, and enchantability than diamond.
All items, except the hoe, deal 1 more damage than their diamond counterparts.
 Netherite Ingot

Crafted with 4 gold ingots and 4 netherite scraps.
Can be used to upgrade diamond tools, swords, and armor.
Floats in lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
 Netherite Scrap

Obtained by smelting ancient debris in a furnace.
Used to create netherite ingots.
Floats in lava.
Cannot burn in lava or fire.
Spawn eggs

 Hoglin spawn egg
Spawns hoglins.


=== Mobs ===
 Hoglins

Spawn in crimson forests.
Drop rotten flesh.
Currently have the same hitbox as pigs.
Legs and ears spasm wildly when moved or attacked.


=== World generation ===
Biomes

Crimson forest
A dense forest with huge crimson fungi. Nether fungi are found in patches on the ground and weeping vines are found under the huge fungi.
Zombie pigmen and hoglins may spawn here.
Soul sand valley
A vast grotto composed of uncovered nether fossils, soul sand, soul soil, large pillars made of basalt, and soul fire.
Skeletons, ghasts, and endermen may spawn here.
Warped forest
A color variation of the crimson forest, but with somewhat different vegetation, particles, and fog effects.
Only endermen may spawn here.
Structures

Nether fossils
Generate in the soul sand valley.
They are different from the Overworld fossils and generate random pieces of basalt instead of coal ore.
Features

 Basalt pillar
Floor to ceiling pillars of basalt that generate in soul sand valleys.
 Huge crimson and warped fungi
New structure resembling trees found in crimson and warped forests, respectively.
Made of crimson and warped stem blocks as well as red nether wart blocks and warped wart blocks.
Can be grown from their respective Nether fungi.


=== Command format ===
/locatebiome

Used to locate specific biomes.


=== Gameplay ===
Sounds

New sounds for most of the newly added blocks.[more information needed]


=== General ===
Particles

Added ash, crimson_spore, soul_fire_flame, warped_spore.
Tags

Added block tag fire.
Contains fire and soul fire.
Controls what blocks can burn entities.
Added block tag nylium.
Contains crimson nylium and warped nylium.
Added crimson_stems block and item tags.
Contains crimson stem and stripped crimson stem.
Added warped_stems block and item tags.
Contains warped stem and stripped warped stem.
Added block tag wart_blocks.
Contains nether wart block and warped wart block.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
 Bamboo Shoot

Renamed from "Bamboo Saplings".
 Bone Blocks

Generate as part of nether fossils in soul sand valleys.
 Redstone Comparators

Changed the way to calculate the input signal.
First, if there is an adjacent container behind, it detects the signal from the container. If not, it detects the signal from redstone components.
Then, if it is not less than 15, the detected signal becomes the input signal. Otherwise, it also gets a signal from item frame and container behind separated by a redstone conductor block from the comparator, and take the maximum of the three as the input signal.
 Flower Pots

Has a bottom texture when empty.
 Gravel and Soul Sand

Generate in the new soul sand valley biomes.
 Netherrack

Using bone meal on netherrack adjacent to nylium converts it into nylium.
If two nylium blocks of different types are present, it chooses the type at random based on how many blocks of each type are around it.
 Nether Wart Blocks

Texture changed from .
Generate as a part of huge crimson fungi. Sometimes generates in the ground replacing the crimson nylium in crimson forest biome.
 Pistons and Sticky Pistons

Hardness has been increased to 1.5.
Pickaxes are now more efficient on pistons.
Pistons can now support non-solid blocks on its top face without them popping off when the piston retracts.
 Redstone Dust

Has a bottom texture.
 Smooth Quartz Block

Renamed from "Smooth Quartz".
 Walls

Walls in the middle of a row longer have pillars when stacked vertically.
Block state now uses none, low, and tall for east, west, north, and south directional values.


=== Items ===
 Clay Ball

Renamed from "Clay".


=== Mobs ===
 Endermen

Now spawn in soul sand valleys and warped forests.
 Ghasts

Sounds are now heard at a shorter range.
Now spawn in soul sand valleys.
 Skeletons

Now spawn in soul sand valleys.
 Zombie Pigmen

Now spawn in crimson forests.
No longer have sounds.


=== World generation ===
Biomes

Biomes in the Nether may now differ based on altitude.
Ceiling

Alongside mushrooms, huge crimson and warped fungi can generate over Y=128 in the Nether.
Nether biome

The old "Nether" biome is now called "Nether Wastes".
Structures

Shipwrecks and ocean ruins are now less common.


=== Command format ===
General

The message shown when running an unknown/incomplete command has changed.


=== Gameplay ===
Advancements

The description of the "Sky's the Limit" advancement has changed from "Find Elytra" to "Find elytra."
Knockback resistance

Is now a scale of the amount of knockback taken instead of a probability to take no knockback.
Patrols

No longer spawn when the player is close to any intact village.
Recipe book

The cartography table recipe now unlocks with paper instead of string.
Sounds

Updated block sounds for bone blocks, netherrack, soul sand, nether wart blocks, nether bricks (and variants), and nether quartz ore.
Spawn

Players can reset their spawn point using a bed when monsters are near, although players still cannot sleep when mobs are near.


=== General ===
Debug menu

When outside the world's vertical area, the debug menu no longer lists 'minecraft:the_void' as the biome.
Instead, it simply hides the biome information.
Saved toolbars

Renamed to "Saved Hotbars"
Options

Renamed "Scale" to "Chat Text Size" in chat settings.
Materials

Added new nether wood material.
Uses the wood material color.
Uses default properties.
Rendering

Improved entity shadows to the ground.
Tags

Added crimson and warped wooden items to the planks, standing_signs, wall_signs, wooden_buttons, wooden_doors, wooden_fences, wooden_pressure_plates, wooden_slabs, wooden_stairs, and wooden_trapdoors block tags.
Added crimson and warped wooden items to the planks, signs, wooden_buttons, wooden_doors, wooden_fences, wooden_pressure_plates, wooden_slabs, wooden_stairs, and wooden_trapdoors item tags.
The slabs block and item tags now use the respective wooden_slabs tag.


== Fixes ==
68 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.16

MC-2591  Walking over the corner of lava deals damage.
MC-10727  Player and entity shadows experience z-fighting with redstone.
MC-17431  Shift-clicking stacked items with a data tag into the enchanting table GUI removes data tags from the moved item.
MC-44192  generic.knockbackResistance is percentage chance to ignore knockback, rather than being scaled.
MC-45619  Water, signs, vines, torches, etc. in the same block as item frame break item frame's redstone signal.
MC-52178  Cape does not move down while sneaking and detaches from body while sneaking.
MC-59363  Items in item frames are deleted if both mouse buttons are used simultaneously.
MC-82235  Baby pigs turn into adult zombie pigmen when struck by lightning.
MC-85527  Shulkers opening into blocks.
MC-92889  Mending does not always consume experience if the player wears items with mending that are already fully repaired.
MC-93198  Throwing potions or throwable projectiles cause both hands to bob up and down.
MC-93477  Shulkers opening into shulker.
MC-93631  Pistons pop off blocks attached to their back when retracting.
MC-96436  Eggs, snowballs, and experience bottles break instantly when thrown while riding a horse.
MC-97958  Small slime has no jump or squish sound.
MC-101084  Held items/blocks appear to bob down and up when opening horse's inventory
MC-103655  Cats do not stand up when using right-click on them while they are sitting on chests or beds.
MC-109370  Bottom face of column blocks is rotated 180 degrees.
MC-109844  en_us.json contains unused strings.
MC-109850  Redstone wire does not have a bottom texture.
MC-111133  Piston pushing opened shulker makes said shulker glitch.
MC-112630  Carrot on a stick cannot be broken.
MC-113381  Falling dust particles of anvil and concrete powder blocks are black.
MC-114304  Retracting piston pushes entities standing behind the back of it.
MC-120335  Flower pot bottom texture is not rendered because of incorrect uv values in the model file.
MC-122187  Teleported to coordinates wrong when teleporting entities relatively.
MC-122335  Projectiles go through an entity if it is close to a player or a snow golem.
MC-122715  /teleport command no longer prevents teleporting to invalid coordinates.
MC-131440  The message for trying to sleep at the wrong time implies that players can only sleep at night during a thunderstorm.
MC-131770  Rain particles appear one block below the water or lava surface.
MC-132607  Splitting slimes and magma cubes do not copy NoAI value.
MC-134162  Item entities can break turtle eggs.
MC-134481  Typo in en_us.json: "Status requst has been handled".
MC-135151  Typo in en_us.json: "An error occured!".
MC-136868  Ignited TNT, arrow or trident turns black when it falls on soul sand or snow layers.
MC-138402  Waterlogged walls "connect" to water source blocks above.
MC-138600  Cats do not bring gifts if they have already decided to sit on the user's bed.
MC-140544  Pickaxes do not speed up piston breaking.
MC-148474  Sloped powered detector rails break when pushed or pulled by a piston.
MC-149052  Stonecutter recipe list does not show item tooltips.
MC-149776  Cartography table requires string for the recipe to show up in the recipe book.
MC-150020  Composter is in the "Miscellaneous" category instead of "Decoration" like the other workstation blocks.
MC-154867  Tamed cats remain sitting if the world is reloaded while the cat is sitting on a chest.
MC-158807  Players can remove cursed enchantments on items by repairing them in inventory.
MC-159300  Villagers that have been infected by a zombie can despawn, even if they have been traded with.
MC-159773  Shulkers can teleport to non-solid faces, and do not teleport to some solid faces.
MC-159918  Foxes do not run from polar bears.
MC-159963  Minecarts can break turtle eggs.
MC-160897  Dropping an item using the drop key displays the hand animation but dropping items from within the inventory does not.
MC-161259  Using the carrot on a stick while riding a pig plays no hand animation.
MC-163286  /setblock ~ ~ ~ air destroy does not destroy liquids.
MC-164184  Breaking a shulker box with contents in Creative mode drops the block at an incorrect location.
From the 1.15.x releases

MC-160902  Arm swings when right-clicking on a full minecart.
MC-161156  Silverfish and endermites appear black on soul sand.
MC-162881  Composter does not display particles when being fed composting items through a hopper.
MC-164158  Lava doesn't emit smoke during rainfall.
MC-164948  Entity shadow renders through transparent blocks.
MC-167077  Foxes sleep on top of honey blocks, even in broad daylight.
MC-167447  Wrong RenderStateShard name.
MC-167512  Glass in the hand is rendered differently depending on the "Clouds" setting.
MC-167989  Spawn point is not set when monsters are nearby.
MC-168540  Threads created by net.minecraft.Util.backgroundExecutor() have misleading names.
MC-168772  Experience orbs can crush turtle eggs.
MC-169679  Composters do not make sounds when fed by hoppers.
MC-169692  Entity shadow floats slightly above the ground.
MC-169832  Transparent item models have inconsistent rendering when a glowing entity is present.
MC-170128  Cannot build an EntityType without a datafixer due to an IllegalArgumentException.
MC-182914  Arrows, and Tridents stuck in midair on door.


== Videos ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==