Beta 1.8 Pre-release is the first pre-release for Java Edition Beta 1.8, that was initially privately released and then leaked, on September 8, 2011. This is the first pre-release to become available in 2011.
Beta 1.8 Pre-release was reuploaded/recompiled 23 hours after its initial compilation to fix bugs and remove some debug features. See  Reupload.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Stone bricks

Occur naturally in strongholds.
Crafted using stone.

 Cracked stone bricks

Occur naturally in strongholds.
 Mossy stone bricks

Occur naturally in strongholds.
   Infested blocks

Spawn silverfish when broken.
Infested stone bricks are occasionally found in strongholds.
Infested stone can generate in the extreme hills biome.
Doesn't drop when broken.
They currently lack an in-game name.
 Bricks slab

Crafted using bricks.

 Stone bricks slab

Occur naturally in strongholds.
Crafted using stone bricks.

 Brick stairs

Drop brick blocks.
Crafted using bricks.

 Stone brick stairs

Occur naturally in strongholds.
Drop stone bricks.
Crafted using stone bricks.

 Glass pane

Crafted using glass.

 Iron bars

Appear only in strongholds and blacksmith houses.
Crafted using iron ingots.

 Fence gate

Open when used.
Connect to fences.
Crafted using stick and planks.

 Vines

Can grow to nearby blocks.
Are naturally generated in swamps.
    Mushroom blocks

Drop their corresponding mushroom.
Generate when the player uses bone meal on a mushroom.
 Pumpkin stems

Are plants grown on farmland that, over time, grow pumpkins on farmland blocks adjacent to them.
 Melon stems

Are plants grown on farmland that, over time, grow melons on farmland blocks adjacent to them.
 Melon 

Currently only obtainable by crafting using 9 melon slices.


=== Items ===
 Raw chicken

New food item.
Dropped by chickens.
Restores 2 () hunger.
Can give the player hunger effect.
 Cooked chicken

New food item.
Restores 6 () hunger.
 Raw beef

New food item.
Dropped by cows.
Restores 3 () hunger.
 Steak

New food item.
Restores 8 () hunger.
 Ender pearl

Dropped by endermen.
Has no function.
 Melon seeds

Can be planted in farmland to grow melons.
Crafted from melons.

 Melon

New food item.
Drops from melon blocks.
Restores 2 () hunger.
 Pumpkin seeds

Cannot be obtained.
Can be planted in farmland to grow pumpkins.
 Rotten flesh

New food item.
Dropped by zombies and zombie pigmen.
Restores 4 () hunger.
Can give the player the hunger effect.


=== Mobs ===
 Cave spider

New variant of the spider.
Inflicts Poison on the player.
Has 20HP  10.
Spawns from spawners in mineshafts.
 Enderman

Becomes hostile to players that damage it or look directly at its face, using its arms to attack.
Has the ability to teleport.
Is able to carry every block.
Makes zombie sounds.
Emits smoke particles.
Has 10HP.
 Silverfish

Appears when the player breaks infested blocks.
Has 20HP  10.


=== Non-mob entities ===
Experience orb

Adds to the player's total experience when collected.
Entity ID is XPOrb.
Plays low-pitched item pickup sound upon collecting.
Dropped by monsters and animals when they are killed.


=== World generation ===
Ravine

Are deep and long cracks breaching the underground layers of the Overworld.
Huge mushroom

Does not generate naturally.
Can be artificially created by applying bone meal to a brown or red mushroom.
Extreme hills

New biome.
Ocean

New biome.
Oceans existed in previous versions, however, now they exist as an actual biome, spanning thousands of blocks.
River

New biome.
Flows through/in between biomes.
Mineshaft

Are underground structures primarily found underground in the Overworld.
They consist of interlinked 33 tunnels with incomplete rail lines running through them, with planks platforms bridging gaps.
Mineshafts are the only structures where cave spider monster spawners can be found.
Stronghold

Is an underground structure in the Overworld.
Only 1 generates per world.
Village

Is a group or complex of buildings and other above ground structures that generate naturally in the Overworld.


=== Gameplay ===
Achievements

Added Sniper Duel: "Kill a skeleton with an arrow at 50 meters".
Controls Debug keys

F6 and F7 move time forwards and backwards, respectively.
F6 disables gravity for the player, it can be canceled by pressing it again.
H and Y increase and decrease the player's FOV, respectively
L and J make the player's camera turn right and left, respectively
I and K make the player's camera turn up or down, respectively
M and N rotate the player's camera 180 around the Z-axis, respectively.
Sprinting

Activated by double-tapping W.
         Hunger

Is a feature exclusive to the player, which is required for natural health regeneration and sprinting.
Decreases when the player does certain actions, like when being hurt, jumping and mining.
Food no longer heals directly, but indirectly: if the food meter is above 90%, heals  every 4 seconds.
If the food meter is at 0%, the player starves and loses  hearts every 4 seconds.
It can be restored by eating food.
 Experience

Currently has no use.
Critical hits

Do more damage depending how close the player was to the ground while falling.
Creative gamemode

Infinite access to almost every item.
No health, except when falling into the void.
Food is not edible.
Flying by double tapping Space.
Increased reach.
Effects

Added obtainable status effects:
Regeneration, which increases health slowly.
Obtained after eating a golden apple.
Hunger, which decreases the hunger bar.
Obtained after eating rotten flesh or raw chicken.
Poison, which hurts the player.
Obtained when being hurt by a cave spider.
Added unobtainable status effects:
Speed, Slowness, Haste, Mining Fatigue, Instant Health, Instant Damage, Water Breathing, Nausea, Strength, Weakness, Jump Boost, Resistance, Fire Resistance, Invisibility, Blindness and Night Vision.
Fog

Now changes color during sunrise and sunset when looking toward the sun.
Void fog

Increases darkness at extreme depths.
Decreases field of vision.


==== Commands ====
/gamemode

Changes the gamemode.


=== General ===
Main menu

Revamped the main menu by adding an animated menu panorama.
Options

The player can now set their field of view in the options via the FOV slider. It can be set from 70 (default) to 110 (Quake Pro).
"Attack", "Use Item", and "List Players" can now be remapped.
Added the brightness option.
Particles

Added crit, hugeexplosion, townaura, and depthsuspend.
Performing a critical hit on any mob causes 'sparks' to fly.
Explosion particles are now shockwaves instead of smoke.
Tiny stationary bubble particles can be seen when underwater.
Fog is now thicker and darker deep underground, and gives off particles. Due to this, the void appears black.
Server list

The ability to save and view multiple servers has now been added.
Splash

Added the following splash text:
Jeb has amazing hair!
Casual gaming!
Undefeated!
Kinda like Lemmings!
Follow the train, CJ!
Leveraging synergy!
This message will never appear on the splash screen, isn't that weird? (Unused)
DungeonQuest is unfair!
110813!
90210!
Check out the far lands!
Tyrian would love it!
Also try VVVVVV!
Also try Super Meat Boy!
Also try Terraria!
Also try Mount And Blade!
Also try Project Zomboid!
Also try World of Goo!
Also try Limbo!
Also try Pixeljunk Shooter!
Also try Braid!
That's super!
Bread is pain!
Read more books!
Khaaaaaaaaan!
Less addictive than TV Tropes!
More addictive than lemonade!
Bigger than a bread box!
Millions of peaches!
Fnord!
This is my true form!
Totally forgot about Dre!
Don't bother with the clones!
Pumpkinhead!
Hobo humping slobo babe!


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
 Cake

Now a slice of cake restore 3 (), instead of 3HP.
 Ferns

Ferns no longer generate naturally.
  Chests

Texture changed from .
Added an opening and closing animation  .
The chest's texture is no longer in the terrain.png file. Instead, it is in the folder "item" under "chest.png" and "chestlarge.png", with the former being a chest on its own and the latter being the large chest.
Are now tile entities, which means they no longer show the breaking animation and are also now slightly smaller than they were before.
Now change the direction they face based on the viewpoint of the player.
Can now be found in mineshafts and strongholds.
Use door sounds when opening and closing.
 Lava

Texture changed from .
Now when lava is touched by rain, it emits smoke particles.
 Leaves

Player-placed leaves no longer decay.
 Moss stone

Texture changed from .
 Obsidian

Can now be mined by an iron pickaxe or moved by an enderman.
 Stone pressure plate

Can now be placed on fences.
 Cobblestone slab

Renamed from "Stone Slab" to "Cobblestone Slab".
 Torch

Their model is no longer always rendered in full brightness.
 Water

Changed texture from .
 Wooden pressure plate

Can now be placed on fences.


=== Items ===
 Apples

Now restore 4 (), instead of 4HP.
Can now be stacked up to 64.
Now takes 1.6 seconds to consume, accompanied with an animation.
 Bow

Behavior has been overhauled; they now need to be charged in order to fire.
Arrows from bows now damage in accordance with the charging time.
Added new textures visible in hand, in order to indicate their charge   .
 Bread

Now restore 5 (), instead of 5HP.
Can now be stacked up to 64.
Now takes 1.6 seconds to consume, accompanied with an animation.
 Cooked fish

Now restore 5 (), instead of 5HP.
Can now be stacked up to 64.
Now takes 1.6 seconds to consume, accompanied with an animation.
 Cooked porkchop

Changed the texture from .
Now restore 8 (), instead of 8HP.
Can now be stacked up to 64.
Now takes 1.6 seconds to consume, accompanied with an animation.
 Cookie

Now restore 1 (), instead of 1HP.
Can now be stacked up to 64.
Now takes 1.6 seconds to consume, accompanied with an animation.
 Golden apples

Now restore 10 (), instead of 20HP  10 health points.
Also give Regeneration for 30 seconds.
Can now be stacked up to 64.
Now takes 1.6 seconds to consume, accompanied with an animation.
 Mushroom stew

Now restore 8 (), instead of 10HP.
Now takes 1.6 seconds to consume, accompanied with an animation.
 Raw fish

Now restore 2 (), instead of 2HP.
Can now be stacked up to 64.
Now takes 1.6 seconds to consume, accompanied with an animation.
 Raw porkchop

Now restore 3 (), instead of 3HP.
Can now be stacked up to 64.
Now takes 1.6 seconds to consume, accompanied with an animation.
 Shears

Can now collect fern, grass and vines.
 Swords

Added blocking.
Negates 50% of the incoming damage.


=== Mobs ===
Passive mobs

No longer despawn.
Randomly flee if attacked by the player or other mobs.
Hostile mobs

Perform attack animations.
 Mob

Removed the mob as an entity, however, their AI is still in the code.
 Monster

Removed the monster as an entity, however, their AI is still in the code.
 Pigs

Their snouts now extrude from their model, rather than being flat.
 Skeletons

The bows of skeletons are now larger and held realistically (full-sized bows, two-handed, but don't yet show the arrow pulling back).
Skeletons now fire arrows slower, but further.
Skeletons no longer bounce around the player, making them much easier to hit.
 Zombies

Now drop rotten flesh instead of feathers.


=== Non-mob entities ===
 Arrows

Hit a mob visually "stick" into the mob rather than just disappear.
 Players

Unarmed damage was decreased from 2HP to 1HP.
The player can now jump four blocks horizontally by sprinting.


=== World generation ===
General

Are now much bigger and more flat.
Hills and mountains tend not to generate as much, except in the new extreme hills biome.
They are no longer aligned based on temperature and humidity, instead their distribution is random.
Now sea level one block lower.
Desert

Larger than before.
Forest

Wolves now spawn more often.
Plains

Larger than before.
Swamp

They are a much more vibrant green color.
They have a new tree type, swamp oaks, which are slightly bigger and have vines hanging from their leaves. They can also generate in shallow water pools.
They are much more flat.
Taiga

No longer generate with snow or ice.


=== Gameplay ===
Clouds

Height raised to the top of the map.
Can no longer phase through blocks.
Movement now syncs with the game's time.
Controls

Holding the left mouse button with a weapon now only swings once.
Holding the right mouse button to place blocks is slightly slower than before.
Player list in multiplayer, defaults to  Tab.
Daylight cycle

No longer require chunk updates and is a smooth transition.
A few tweaks to sunrise and sunset:
Clouds change color during sunrise and sunset to match the sky color.
Horizon, specifically haze changes color more vividly during sunset and sunrise.
HUD

Armor bar moved to above hearts, due to hunger bar.
The version tag appears outside of the debug screen again.
Void

Entities are now lit in the void.
Color of the void now changes from blue to black while descending.
Spawn

The player's spawn point is now bound to a specific biome rather than to any sand block. The player can spawn in forest, swamp and taiga biomes.
Weather

Rain and snow now render faster.


=== General ===
Light

Implemented a new lighting engine. The lighting on a block is given a tint based on the most prominent source of light.
Artificial light now gives a very subtle "flicker".
Splash

Removed duplicate "Check it out!"


== Technical ==


=== General ===
Debug screen

The ability to see the level's seed has now been added to the debug screen.
Entity numbers being shown above a mob's head have now been removed from the debug screen.


== Removals ==


=== World generation ===
 Far Lands
Seasonal forest
Rainforest
Shrubland
Savanna
Tundra
Ice desert

This biome did not generate in previous versions, so its removal has no effect on regular gameplay.
Beach
Gravel beach

All removed biomes convert to a new biome (if generated).


=== Gameplay ===
Controls

Removed the ability to change the fog level under F


=== General ===
Distance effects

The famous high-distance world rendering offset bug has been fixed (except for moving pistons).
Redstone repeater top faces are no longer weirdly broken.
Rails, powered rails and detector rails are no longer stretched.
Ladders are no longer offset nor stretched.
Upwards travelling redstone wire no longer appears offset from the block it's on.
The side faces of flowing water and lava are no longer broken.
World boundary

Has now been reduced from 32,000,000 to 30,000,000.
Options

"Toggle Fog" can no longer be remapped.


== Fixes ==
1 bug fixed

Fixed stairs, cactus, farmland, pressure plate, fence, cake, snow layer, button, and trapdoor items being too big.


== Reupload ==
Beta 1.8 Pre-release was reuploaded/recompiled 23 hours after its initial compilation to fix bugs and remove some debug features that were accidentally left in the game. Features and bugs present in the initial version include:

Villages do not generate correctly. Only the wells, gravel paths, and lampposts generate; houses do not generate.
The stronghold does not generate correctly. Only the central staircase generates.
Various models often become corrupted.
Screenshots can sometimes fail to save, printing an error into the chat: Failed to save: java.lang.IllegalArgumentException: Number of remaining buffer elements is x, must be at least y. Because at most y elements is required, regardless of actual returned element count, where x and y are two numbers, with y being less than x. This bug seems to occur after changing the resolution of the game window, and can be solved by making the window smaller.
The world can sometimes fail to save, resulting in lost progress when quitting.
Various debug keys exist.
F9 freezes the camera in its current position.
F6, while also turning back time, enables a strange "bouncy" movement. It locks the player's Y coordinate (meaning they cannot jump or fall). It makes the player accelerate relatively slowly when moving. The speed can be changed using mouse scroll, negative speeds revert the controls. Additionally, blocks lose their collision, however the player is still affected by solid blocks trying to push them out (as observed in normal gameplay), though if the player is moving quickly enough they can push all the way through a block. Strangely enough, negative speeds "suck" the player into blocks on collision.
N and M change the view's rotation clockwise and counterclockwise, respectively. Holding both keys simultaneously resets the rotation.
Y and H decrease and increase the field of view, respectively. These keys seem to affect the field of view differently to how the FOV option does - the player's hand (or anything the player is holding) also becomes stretched as the field of view increases or decreases, which does not happen if the player changes the FOV option in the menu. Holding both keys simultaneously resets the field of view.
I makes the player look up, J looks left, K looks down, and L looks right. These movements are normally done by moving the mouse. This setting cannot be reset by holding any keys simultaneously.
U and O moves the third-person camera forwards and backwards, respectively. This setting cannot be reset by holding both keys simultaneously.


== Trivia ==
This version suffered from many glitches before reupload (see images below).
This is currently the oldest server version to support Mojang authentication servers. This means any prior version requires setting online-mode in server.properties to false in order to join them.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==