1.20.2 is a minor update to Java Edition, released on September 21, 2023, which adds the "Villager Trade Rebalance" experiment, the /random command, function macros, changes diamond generation, and fixes bugs. It is not compatible with 1.20 – 1.20.1 servers.


== Additions ==


=== Command format ===
/random

A new command for randomizing values and controlling random sequences.
Syntaxes:
/random (value|roll) <range> [<sequence>]: draw a random value.
/random reset (*|<sequence>) [<seed>] [<includeWorldSeed>] [<includeSequenceId>]: control random sequences.
Arguments:
range: A range of values to randomize between, inclusively. For instance, 1..6 is a regular D6 roll.
sequence: The name of a random sequence to sample or reset.
In /random reset, * refers to all random sequences.
seed: A seed to use for the random sequence after reset.
includeWorldSeed: A boolean specifying whether to include the world seed when seeding the sequence. Defaults to true.
When false, it means the sequence evaluates to the same regardless of which world the command is run in.
includeSequenceId: A boolean specifying whether to include the sequence ID when seeding the sequence. Defaults to true.
When false, it means all sequences evaluate to the same regardless of which name they have.
/random (value|roll) notes:
When using roll rather than value, the resulting value is also shown in chat for all players.
When sequence not specified, this command can be executed by players without operator privileges.
/random reset notes:
By default, all sequences are seeded as 0, true, true.
Using * instead of a sequence ID resets all sequences and sets the default parameters.
If no seed is specified, the sequence resets to the default parameters.


=== General ===
Attributes

Added the generic.max_absorption attribute.
Acts similar to generic.max_health, but instead of being the upper bound for Health, it is the upper bound for AbsorptionAmount.
The mob effect absorption increases generic.max_absorption as well as fills the AbsorptionAmount to the max when applied.
Experiments

Added the "Villager Trade Rebalance" experimental toggle (trade_rebalance data pack).
Game rule

Added enderPearlsVanishOnDeath, controlling whether thrown ender pearls vanish when the player that threw them dies, defaults to true.
Loot table

Added sequence loot function.
Contains 1 field:
functions: an array of sub-functions to run in sequence.
Can also be declared as an inline array without a type.
This matches the existing behavior where loot function JSON files can be declared as an array of composite functions.
all_of predicates in loot tables can now be declared implicitly as an inline array without a type.
This similarly matches the existing behavior where loot predicate JSON files can be declared as an array of sub-predicates.
Options

Added "Narrator Hotkey" option to accessibility settings, opened by default.
Pressing Ctrl + B doesn't open narrator if it is turned off.
options.txt

Added narratorHotkey, defaults to true.
Social interactions

Player skins and names can now be reported in the social interactions screen.
Like chat reports, player skin and name reports are handled by a human.
If a skin or name is reported, and found to be violating the Community Standards, following actions can be take by Minecraft moderators:
Ban the skin from being used by any player.
Ban the name from being used by any player.
Suspend the player from online play in the case of repeated offences.
When a skin is banned, players with that skin:
Have their skin removed.
Are notified when they launch the game.
Are automatically assigned one of the default skins.
Can still play multiplayer and singleplayer.
Can select a new custom skin at any time.
When a player's name is banned, that player:
Needs to choose a new name.
Is notified when they launch the game.
Is not able to play online until they change their name.
Can still play singleplayer.
A skin or name that has been banned cannot be used by any player in the future.
Added following report category:
I want to report them
I'm annoyed with them / they have done something I do not like.
Tags

Added the following block tags:
#camel_sand_step_sound_blocks: contains #sand, and #concrete_powder.
#concrete_powder: contains all types of concrete powders.
Added the following damage type tags:
#always_kills_armor_stands: contains arrow, trident, mob_projectile, fireball, and wither_skull.
Damage types included in this tag should always fully kill an armor stand.
#no_knockback: contains explosion, player_explosion, and bad_respawn_point.
Causes knockback to not be caused by the damage itself. Used in Vanilla for damage that is caused by events, such as explosions, which apply knockback separately.
Added the following entity tag:
#non_controlling_rider: contains slime, and magma_cube.
Represents entities that don't override their vehicles movement control.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
 Barrier

No longer produces fall particles when entities fall on them.
No longer creates particles when a player brushes them.
Can now be waterlogged by players in Creative mode.
Water cannot be placed in them or taken out by non-direct interactions such as dispensers.
 Chorus Flower

No longer provides support for hanging or standing blocks.
 Decorated Pots

Now have Creative inventory tooltips.
 Enchanting Table

Reverted the texture of lapis slot to the texture before 1.18-pre5, for consistency with the smithing table.
 Jukebox and Tripwire Hook

Now uses wood sounds instead of stone.
 Lever, Redstone Comparator and Redstone Repeater

Now uses stone sounds instead of wood.
 Pink Petals

The size of the hitbox now increases with the number of petals.
 Sculk Sensor and Calibrated Sculk Sensor

Vibrations no longer risk being lost on simulation distance limit.
Can now detect the following events:
block_change, with frequency 11:
Carrots being eaten by rabbits.
Chiseled bookshelves receiving books from hoppers.
Sweet berries being eaten by foxes.
Turtle eggs cracking.
block_destroy, with frequency 12:
Fire being doused by water potion.
Turtle eggs hatching.
entity_action (new), with frequency 4:
Camels dashing.
Camels standing up.
Camels sitting down.
Turtles clearing away sand.
Witches drinking a potion.
entity_damage, with frequency 7:
Totems of undying activating.
entity_place, with frequency 14:
Evokers evoking vexes or fangs.
item_interact_finish, with frequency 3:
Using bone meal.
unequip (new), with frequency 4:
Unequipping items.
Camels eating cactus now emits an eat vibration with frequency 8, instead of entity_interact vibration with frequency 6.
 Smithing Table

Now in the custom recipes, the upgrade material can be sent to the GUI instantly with the ⇧ Shift + left click shortcut.
 Sponge and Wet Sponge

They now have custom sounds.
 Redstone Wire, Redstone Repeaters and Redstone Comparators

Now check for attachment when receiving PP update from beneath.
 Heads

Added powered block state.
No longer check for redstone signals every game tick.


=== Items ===
 Chorus Fruit

Now resets fall distance when eating it.
 Explorer Map

Updated structure icons on explorer maps sold by cartographers.
 Pigstep Music Disc

This music disc is now the last one of the music discs in the Creative inventory.


=== Mobs ===
 Bee

Can now collect pollen from chorus flower or spore blossom.
 Camels, Frogs, Goats and Sniffers

Now panic when damaged while attached to leads.
 Villagers

The discount for curing a villager is no longer multiplied if the villager is reinfected and cured again.
Now attempt to spawn an iron golem every 30 seconds instead of 35.
General

Changed mob attack reach calculation.
In horizontal directions, mobs' attack reach are now their bounding box extended in horizontal directions, instead of using horizontal width to determine.
For example, a ravager won't be able to attack through a few block thick walls.
In vertical directions, mobs' attack reach are now the exact vertical range of their bounding box. When there's no overlap between their bounding box and their target's bounding box in vertical direction, they can not attack, in specific:
Riding a medium-sized mob (e.g. horse) can get rid of attacks from short mobs (e.g. baby zombie).
Riding a tall mob (e.g. camel) can get rid of attacks from standard size mobs (e.g. zombie).
Some mob's reaching height now extended (e.g. enderman, safety height changed from 1.5 to 3).


=== Non-mob entities ===
Display entities

Display entities now start updating their client-side position and rotation on the first tick after an update.
In previous versions, updates were applied in the same tick, causing uneven motion.
New behavior is now similar to armor stands, mobs and players.
On the server, position and rotation are still updated immediately.
Duration of this interpolation is controlled by the field teleport_duration.
0 means that updates are applied immediately.
1 means that the display entity moves from current position to the updated one over one tick.
Higher values spread the movement over multiple ticks.
Please note that this value is clamped to avoid glitches due to periodic position updates.
The new value applies only to position and rotation changes made after it changed.
That means any current movement continues unchanged.
Note: behavior while riding remains unchanged from previous versions.


=== World generation ===
Ore distribution

Diamond ore is now generated more frequently in the deepslate layers of the Overworld.
Added a new ore blob placement: Uniform distributed, from height -64 to -4, with blob size 8, generation frequency 2 and a 50% chance of discarding when exposed to air.
Other existing diamond ore placements remain untouched.


=== Command format ===
Functions

A single backslash \ as the last non-whitespace character of a line now allows a command to be continued on the next line.
Leading and trailing whitespace of the following line are stripped before appending.
Functions can now contain macro lines, making them function macros.
Any line beginning with $ (as the first non-space character) marks a macro line.
A macro line also contains one or more substitutions in the form of $(variable).
Commands with variable substitutions are re-evaluated after substitution.
Running commands with this type have extra cost compared to pre-parsed functions.
Game attempts to cache the result of certain parameter set being used in a call, to reduce costs when repeatedly calling.
When calling a function macro a compound with data for all argument variables must be provided.
Numbers used as macro arguments are now always inserted without suffixes, regardless of numeric type.
/function

Extended command usage, now supported parameters for function macro's variable substitution.
New syntax: /function <name> [<arguments>|with (block <sourcePos>|entity <source>|storage <source>) [<path>]]
New arguments:
arguments: A data compound, enclosed in {}.
Data source: A data source specification, like what could already be used for /data get.
path: An NBT path specification.
The data source and path must specify a compound data entry.
The compound must contain one entry for each variable used in the macro.
More data may be present in the compound and if so is ignored.
Calling a non-macro function with a data compound is silently ignored.
When a macro is called, the values provided are substituted in place of the variable specifications and the resulting commands are executed.
In order to improve performance when repeatedly calling with the same parameter, values in the provided compound which are referenced in macro as parameters are cached.
Any syntax errors in the lines resulting from variable substitution result in the entire function call being skipped.
/item

Can now replace items in jukeboxes.
Can now remove items in chiseled bookshelves.
General

History of used commands is now saved and accessible across worlds.
The last 50 commands that are sent in chat are remembered across game sessions.
The command and chat history can be accessed by pressing ↑ Up or ↓ Down in the chat.
Regular chat is only persisted within the same game session (leaving a server or world clears them).
Recent commands are stored in command_history.txt in the .minecraft folder.


=== Gameplay ===
Advancements

The "Smithing with Style" advancement now grants 150 experience upon completion.
Recipe books

Bamboo fence and bamboo fence gate are now grouped with the other ones.
Trading

When villagers unlock new trades, the order of those trades in the UI is now always random instead of sometimes being deterministic.


=== General ===
Chat

Clients no longer disconnect themselves when receiving an invalid chat message.
A placeholder message is instead shown in chat.
Chunk format

Game no longer uses numeric values when storing mob effects to world.
For example, 4 becomes minecraft:mining_fatigue.
Changed following fields in mob effect instances:
Id (integer) -> id (string, resource location)
Ambient -> ambient
Amplifier -> amplifier
Duration -> duration
ShowParticles -> show_particles
ShowIcon -> show_icon
HiddenEffect -> hidden_effect
This field is a mob effect instance, so changes to the parent also applied here, recursively.
FactorCalculationData -> factor_calculation_data
In NBT format for block entity type beacon:
Primary (integer) -> primary_effect (string, resource location)
Secondary (integer) -> secondary_effect (string, resource location)
Chunk tick

randomTickSpeed game rule now affects the rate of accumulation of snow and ice the same way it affects crops and other blocks.
Data pack

The pack format version is now 18.
Added decal field to armor trim patterns (default: false).
If true, the pattern texture is masked based on the underlying armor.
Debug screen

Values in the SH row now show up as question marks when playing on a server, instead of wrong values.
When hitboxes are displayed through F3 + B, entities that have a passenger display the passenger's attachment point.
Renamed "Debug" row to "Debug charts", and changed its style.
"Pie" chart now called "Profiler" chart.
The charts on the debug screen can now be toggled with the key combinations F3 + 1 (profiler chart) and F3 + 2 (FPS and TPS) instead of ⇧ Shift + F3 and Alt + F3.
Press key combination F3 + 3 now shows charts for ping and received network traffic.
Debug screen no longer be closed while switching charts.
Multiple charts now can appears at the same time, unless it's conflict with each other.
Current chart layout is kept when debug screen re-enabled.
Entity format

In NBT format for entity type mooshroom:
Removed EffectId, and EffectDuration.
Added stew_effects, with the same format as effects field in suspicious_stew item format.
In NBT format for entity type area_effect_cloud:
Renamed Effects to effects.
In NBT format for entity type arrow:
Renamed CustomPotionEffects to custom_potion_effects.
In NBT format for living entities (players, armor stands, and all mobs):
Renamed ActiveEffects to active_effects.
Game events

Added entity_action game event, to replace entity_roar, and entity_shake.
Added unequip game event.
Multiplayer and World Selection screens

Renamed "Cancel" button to "Back".
Pack metadata

New features have been added to datapacks and resource packs to allow creation of packs that are compatible with multiple versions of the game.
Pack metadata now includes an optional field supported_formats which describes a range for pack formats that this pack supports.
Examples: 16, [16,17], {"min_inclusive": 16, "max_inclusive": 17}
pack_format field is still required and its format remains unchanged, to allow older game versions to read pack data.
If supported_formats is present, it must contain the value declared in pack_format.
Since this new information is ignored by older versions of the game, they always see a "normal", single-version pack, without any extended compatibility.
Packs can now contain overlay directories ("overlays").
Overlays are sub-packs applied over the "normal" contents of a pack.
These directories have the same layout as the top-level pack, including the assets and data directories.
Overlays can be applied if they support the client's pack format.
Overlays can add and replace files, but not remove them.
For example, if the overlay foo is applied, the file foo/assets/minecraft/textures/bar.png replaces contents of assets/minecraft/textures/bar.png.
pack.mcmeta and pack.png are ignored in overlay directories.
New section called overlays have been added to pack metadata.
It contains an entries field, containing a list of overlays.
Every overlay entry has two fields:
formats - range of supported formats
directory - overlay directory (allowed characters: a-z, 0-9, _, and -)
Order of application: overlays are stacked from the bottom to top of the list.
For example, if a pack has two overlays: "entries": [{"directory":"A", ...}, {"directory":"B", ...}], the game first looks in B, then A, and then in the top pack directory.
player.dat format

In NBT format for item type potion, lingering_potion, splash_potion, and tipped_arrow:
Renamed CustomPotionEffects to custom_potion_effects.
In NBT format for item type suspicious_stew:
Renamed Effects to effects, also changed following fields in this field:
EffectId (integer) -> id (string, resource location)
EffectDuration -> duration
Protocol

Optimized the way chunks are sent to clients to allow players with low-bandwidth internet connections to play on multiplayer servers.
Chunks are no longer sent over the network to the client in one big continuous batch.
They are instead sent in smaller batches depending on the available bandwidth. This means that:
Clients with extremely low-bandwidth connections don't time out while loading the world.
Clients with low-bandwidth connections can interact with the world while some chunks are still loading.
Only chunks within the client's render distance are now sent.
Gameplay packets are now packed into bigger TCP-packets to reduce overhead from TCP-headers, significantly reducing network usage.
Changed network protocol to allow for more data-driven content in the future.
Configuration phase automatically starts after login phase (i.e. after client account has been verified) and lasts until the player joins the world (play phase).
Clients can stay in configuration phase indefinitely - it's up to server to release it to the world.
Servers can also request clients to re-enter the configuration phase after it has entered the play phase.
Other players see such clients as disconnected.
Users in configuration phase aren't visible on the player list.
Actions allowed in configuration phase (moved from play phase).
Configuration of data-driven registries.
Configuration of enabled features.
Actions shared between configuration and play phases:
Application of server resource packs.
Update of tags.
Exchange of custom packets.
Ping and keep-alive packets.
The server now negotiates resource pack in the configuration phase.
This means that the player is no longer in world when answering prompts and reloading resources.
Client options are now sent during the configuration network phase when joining a server.
Resource pack

The pack format version is now 18.
The process of upgrading a pack can be assisted by using an automated Slicer tool.
All textures containing multiple sprites in a sheet for GUI have been split into individual sprites under textures/gui/sprites (automated by Slicer tool).
All textures in the realms namespace have been moved into the minecraft namespace (automated by Slicer tool).
villager2.png has been renamed to villager.png (automated by Slicer tool).
icon/trial_available and realm_status/expires_soon GUI sprites are animated with .mcmeta declarations instead of individual sprites (automated by Slicer tool).
The bundle tooltip background is now drawn as a nine-sliced sprite.
The icons for the "Accessibility", "Language", and "Realms News" buttons have been split from their underlying button texture.
The "Realms Invite" button is now drawn as an overlay on the normal button texture.
The highlighted texture state for this button has been removed.
The highlighted states for Realms invitation number icons have been removed.
The exclamation marks on the notification\more.png have been removed.
The text field background is now a nine-sliced sprite at widget/text_field, and widget/text_field_highlighted.
The scroll bar in lists and text fields is now a nine-sliced sprite at widget/scroller.
Scoreboard

The belowName display slot selector is now below_name.
server.properties

Added new log-ips option (defaults to true).
When set to false, prevents player IPs from being included in the log when players join the game.
Social interactions

Changed following reporting categories:
Defamation, impersonation, or false information
Someone is damaging your or someone else's reputation, pretending to be someone they're not, or for example sharing false information with the aim to exploit or mislead others.
Imminent harm - Self-harm or suicide
Someone is threatening to harm themselves in real life or talking about harming themselves in real life.
Imminent harm - Threat to of harm to others
Someone is threatening to harm you or someone else in real life.
Tags

Moved all types of concrete powders to newly added block tag #concrete_powder from #mineable/shovel block tag, then added #concrete_powder to #mineable/shovel.
Removed entity_roar, and entity_shake from #vibrations, and #warden_can_listen game event tags, then added entity_action, and unequip to them.
Added chorus_flower, and spore_blossom to #flowers block and item tags.
Telemetry

Added a button to the telemetry data collection screen that links to the Microsoft Privacy Statement.
General

The LWJGL library has been upgraded to version 3.3.2.
The default Java version shipped with the game has been upgraded to Microsoft OpenJDK 17.0.8.
Added validation for symbolic links in datapacks and resource packs, to improve safety.
This feature expands on symbolic link validation in worlds added in the previous release.
The game now warns users if a pack added via drag and drop contains disallowed symbolic links.
Packs containing disallowed symbolic links are not visible in UI and commands.
Additionally, directories and files that are not recognized as packs are no longer copied via drag and drop.


== Experimental ==
These additions and changes only take effect when the "Villager Trade Rebalance" experimental data pack is enabled.


=== Additions ===


==== General ====
Tags

Added the following structure tags:
#on_desert_village_maps: contains village_desert.
#on_jungle_explorer_maps: contains jungle_pyramid.
#on_plains_village_maps: contains village_plains.
#on_savanna_village_maps: contains village_savanna.
#on_snowy_village_maps: contains village_snowy.
#on_swamp_explorer_maps: contains swamp_hut.
#on_taiga_village_maps: contains village_taiga.


=== Changes ===


==== World generation ====
Ancient City

Increases the chance of generating enchanted books with Mending.
Desert Pyramid

Increases the chance of generating enchanted books with Unbreaking (level I to III).
Jungle Pyramid

Increases the chance of generating enchanted books with Unbreaking (level I to III).
Mineshaft

Increases the chance of generating enchanted books with Efficiency (level I to V).
Pillager Outpost

Increases the chance of generating enchanted books with Quick Charge (level I to III).


==== Gameplay ====
Trading

Changed the trading mechanism of librarians selling enchanted books.
Instead of offering every possible enchanted book, librarians are now offering specific enchanted books depending on which biome they come from.
Jungle and swamp villages do not generate naturally. Thus, players must breed villagers or cure zombie villagers in these biomes to access their trades.
All tradable enchanted books now split to special books and normal books.
Special books have a specific enchantment with a fixed level, and are only available from master librarians with full XP.
Normal books have a specific enchantment without a fixed level, just like before.
All enchantments used for crossbow, fishing rod, and trident are removed from trading.

Added seven new maps which cartographers can sell, depending on the biome they come from.
Jungle and swamp villages do not generate naturally. Thus, players must breed villagers or cure zombie villagers in these biomes to access their trades.
Village maps points to a village in a specific biome. Jungle explorer map points to a jungle pyramid. Swamp explorer map points to a swamp hut.

Changed trades of armorers:
Buying diamond armor now also requires a small amount of diamonds.
Most master-level armorers buy iron blocks and pay 4 emeralds for them.
Chainmail armor is exclusively sold by jungle and swamp armorers.
The savanna armorer sells cursed diamond armor at reduced prices.
The taiga armorer can swap one piece of diamond armor for another.

Changed the wandering trader trades.
Trade list now made up by following trades, in order:
Buying trade (new) × 2
Special selling trade × 2
Ordinary selling trade × 5
Added new buying trades, some selling trades, and changed some existing selling trades:


== Fixes ==
212 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.20

MC-1297 – You can attack and be attacked through glass panes.
MC-2310 – Wrong attack radius calculation damages/kills entities through blocks and corners.
MC-25088 – Health Boost completely reset if applied again.
MC-29371 – Several buttons and icons use the old tooltip design upon being hovered over.
MC-61041 – CustomPotionEffects, ActiveEffects, and Effects NBT tags still use numeral IDs.
MC-67532 – Bottom 2 rows of pixels in selected hotbar slot texture don't appear in game.
MC-69387 – The /item command cannot replace items within jukeboxes.
MC-70127 – Some block state changes aren't communicated to clients.
MC-72721 – Chat messages show after death independent of chat setting.
MC-80876 – Entity riding vehicle has always same offset.
MC-80938 – Non-default BurnTime, CookTime and CookTimeTotal values of furnace can cause GUI to be displayed incorrectly.
MC-82239 – Minecarts riding minecarts are unrideable.
MC-85582 – Entity models in the inventory can render outside the boundaries of the black box.
MC-86918 – Ender dragon and piglin heads are not activated when powered by comparators.
MC-93320 – Water freezes even if randomTickSpeed is 0.
MC-93820 – Rain filling cauldrons is not affected by randomTickSpeed.
MC-96409 – Creepers can't blow up the boat and boat with chest they ride, when it is on the land.
MC-103800 – Sometimes armor stands won't update their visual rotation.
MC-103831 – Creepers only deal half a heart of damage to nearby entities when exploding inside of boats.
MC-109346 – Newly rendered players always look south until they move their head.
MC-112133 – Eating chorus fruit does not reset fall distance.
MC-118616 – The sounds of magma cubes and slimes aren't controlled by the "Hostile Creatures" sound slider.
MC-119873 – The text used for the credits button within the title screen is untranslatable.
MC-121772 – Can't scroll while holding ⇧ Shift on macOS.
MC-121884 – Server->Client custom payload packets can leak resources.
MC-122296 – Horizontal scrolling does not work on Mac [Magic Mouse].
MC-122547 – Barriers can produce fall particles.
MC-122645 – Narrator hotkey cannot be customized or disabled.
MC-125046 – RepairCost NBT tag is created on any renamed item using anvils which can cause items to not stack properly.
MC-131684 – Chunk data packet allocates an extra byte for each section using GlobalPalette.
MC-135339 – Host's skin is not visible to other players in a LAN world if the host has not opened any world before.
MC-140646 – Text fields don't scroll while selecting text with ⇧ Shift.
MC-147766 – ⇧ Shift key stays pressed until press any other key.
MC-154827 – Typo in splash text "Verlet intregration!".
MC-164080 – Entities riding on Ghast are partially or fully inside it.
MC-164176 – Player ping indicator uses the same textures as the server list ping indicator.
MC-169201 – Missing "rolls" in loot tables causes NullPointerException.
MC-169464 – Scoreboard slots are not case-sensitive.
MC-169530 – Player sneaks client-side when riding a pig in a two block high tunnel.
MC-173057 – Text field can scroll when auto completing, so that you do not see what you auto completed.
MC-173643 – Zombies don't attack villager when elevated below them.
MC-177110 – Mob stepping sounds are inconsistently subtitled.
MC-177172 – Dash in villager/trader UI is hardcoded / untranslatable.
MC-178787 – Sitting on a pig with a saddle without a carrot on a stick makes the pig stand still.
MC-181109 – Grindstone adds RepairCost: 0.
MC-181190 – The discount for curing a villager is multiplied if the villager is reinfected and cured again.
MC-182820 – Repeaters and comparators use wood sounds for placing/breaking despite being made mostly of stone.
MC-190815 – Shulker boxes don't conduct redstone when open, but don't trigger redstone updates when opened.
MC-192307 – Accessibility icon does not support semi-transparent pixel.
MC-193457 – Dropper/Dispenser 'Triggered' block state not updating without player interaction.
MC-197473 – Renamed block entities don't stack properly.
MC-200484 – Jukeboxes use stone sounds despite being composed predominantly of wood.
MC-201166 – A summoned minecart can stay visually tilted.
MC-202432 – Absorption effect does not go away even after the hearts are gone.
MC-203232 – Endermite's hitbox is so little it doesn't appear above the boat when sitting in one.
MC-206182 – Cannot tab out of console text field of command block.
MC-208909 – Axolotl will still be dry on the boat or boat with chest if it's in water when raining.
MC-209220 – Cursor in Edit Game Rules menu does not blink.
MC-209798 – Sculk sensors are not activated upon using bone meal.
MC-210485 – Sculk sensors are not activated upon evokers summoning vexes.
MC-214126 – Bees don't pollinate themselves with spore blossoms or chorus flowers.
MC-215768 – Sculk sensors do not detect turtles clearing away sand.
MC-217627 – Spore blossoms are not part of the #minecraft:flowers tag.
MC-217628 – Levers use wood sounds rather than stone.
MC-217629 – Tripwire hooks use stone sounds, rather than wood.
MC-219440 – Sculk sensors do not detect fire being put out by a water splash potion.
MC-227338 – Vindicators have insane range when riding a ravager.
MC-228420 – World not loading / falling through the world when joining a server / travelling between dimensions / respawning.
MC-229121 – JVM crash in jdk.internal.loader.NativeLibraries.load.
MC-230732 – Minecraft local difficulty setting is calculated/displayed wrongly when running a world in a server.
MC-231898 – The structure block UI selection outline doesn't highlight the right side of certain focused fields.
MC-232840 – Baby zombie legs clip through heads of mobs they are riding.
MC-235762 – Screenshots wider than 16384 pixels causes a crash / java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: Out of stack space.
MC-236966 – Audio output setting choices are limited on macOS.
MC-237326 – Horse flashing heart texture is unused.
MC-237333 – Cake, banners and paintings cannot be placed on chorus flowers, despite being able to support them.
MC-237427 – Horse flashing heart background texture is unused.
MC-237428 – Flashing hunger icon texture is unused.
MC-237429 – Flashing hunger background texture is unused.
MC-238793 – Excessive chunks sent to client with low render distance.
MC-242076 – The skeleton of a spider jockey sits "inside" of spider model rather than on top of the spider.
MC-242092 – Texture map for magma cube (magmacube.png) has unused pixels.
MC-242385 – Inconsistency on the buffer size calculation in the chunk packet data.
MC-242395 – Texture map for the blaze (blaze.png) contains unused pixels.
MC-242396 – Texture map for armor stand (wood.png) contains unused pixels.
MC-242397 – Texture maps for cow, red & brown mooshroom (red/brown_mooshroom.png & cow.png) contain unused pixels.
MC-242592 – Texture map for the polar bear (polarbear.png) contain unused pixels.
MC-245930 – GUI texture files have hidden transparent remnants.
MC-248778 – The item count symbol within shulker box tooltips is untranslatable.
MC-248833 – The parentheses used before and after the warning label within the language menu are untranslatable.
MC-248844 – The page indicator symbol within the recipe book GUI is untranslatable.
MC-248846 – The colon used within the death screen to show the player's score is untranslatable.
MC-249109 – Sniffers, frogs, goats, and camels don't panic when attached to leads.
MC-249355 – The hyphen used within the statistics menu to show a null value is untranslatable.
MC-249702 – Server crash when attempting to start a server with malformatted banned-ips.json.
MC-249776 – Players sneak client-side while riding boat chests under hoppers.
MC-249893 – Authlib: MinecraftSessionService#fillProfileProperties doesn't check if server returns an error.
MC-250985 – Unused recipe book button in crafting and inventory texture.
MC-251525 – Sculk sensors are not activated upon rabbits eating planted carrots.
MC-252231 – Warm Frog texture has inconsistent pixels.
MC-252295 – The word "whilst" within several death messages isn't spelled in American English.
MC-252298 – Death messages relating to the Thorns enchantment don't contain conjunctions where appropriate.
MC-252316 – The word "burnt" within some death messages isn't spelled in American English.
MC-253137 – The game output console is logged with errors regarding missing signatures from property textures when joining LAN worlds.
MC-253241 – The player count indicator symbol within the multiplayer menu is untranslatable.
MC-253269 – The advancement progress indicator symbol within the advancements menu is untranslatable.
MC-253270 – The hyphen used within boss bars for raids is untranslatable.
MC-253278 – The percentage symbol used within the level loading screen to show the loading progress of the world is untranslatable.
MC-253281 – Text within filled map tooltips when advanced tooltips are hidden is untranslatable.
MC-253283 – The percentage and chunk indicator symbols used within the optimize world menu are untranslatable.
MC-253638 – The symbols used within shulker box tooltips to show random loot table contents are untranslatable.
MC-253797 – Resource pack rejection prints component instead of username.
MC-254100 – Iron golem spawn rate decreased.
MC-255263 – Players' positions are desynced after stopping movement while moving the camera.
MC-255418 – Vertical redstone dust placed against dropper/dispenser/hopper doesn't visually disappear when the dust above is removed.
MC-255829 – Villager trades air if it has a totem of undying trade and uses the held totem.
MC-255967 – Old chunks that would have Deep Dark biomes below Y=0 if generated newly doesn't completely generate; only Ancient Cities are spawned.
MC-256466 – Raft entities are named boats.
MC-256482 – Sculk sensors are not activated upon camels standing up or sitting down.
MC-256485 – Camels that spawn within villages can spawn inside blocks.
MC-256549 – Baby camels that aren't moving face in the direction of their adults when pathfinding to players that are tempting them.
MC-256641 – Bamboo fence and fence gate aren't grouped with the other fences and fence gates in the crafting table.
MC-256652 – Endermen are almost unable to attack Players on a Camel.
MC-256675 – Z-fighting occurs between the legs of the camel and the texture of the saddle when it is sitting.
MC-256690 – Camels attempt to stand up when blocks are placed over them, causing them to take suffocation damage if blocks are at eye level.
MC-256696 – Player sneaks client-side while riding a camel in a three-block high space.
MC-256737 – Sniffers, frogs, goats, and camels prioritize pathfinding to their lover when fed over panicking when being damaged.
MC-256777 – The two characters used within the tab list to show players' health are untranslatable.
MC-257342 – You get slowed down when riding a camel in a 3 block tall area.
MC-257431 – Bamboo fence gates utilize the wrong textures.
MC-257628 – Sculk sensors are not activated upon camels dashing.
MC-257909 – Zoglins, hoglins, and pandas can still attack players riding camels.
MC-258379 – Parity issue: The locations of camels' ears differ across platforms.
MC-258620 – Piglins barter every 121 game ticks instead of every 120 game ticks.
MC-259152 – Player's model displayed in inventory while sneaking differs between the versions.
MC-259382 – Message Failed to get element is logged repeatedly when giving yourself armor with invalid trimming pattern or material.
MC-259401 – Lapis lazuli icons in enchanting table and smithing table are inconsistent.
MC-259452 – Baby Camel's laying down/getting up sounds are not sped up.
MC-259475 – The rotation of controlling passengers on sitting camels is sometimes restricted while adjusting your rotation slowly.
MC-259769 – Firework explosions no longer deal knockback to entities.
MC-259794 – Armor enchanted with curse of binding cannot be swapped via right-clicking in creative mode.
MC-259860 – Sitting camels that have passengers continuously look up and down for other players.
MC-259915 – Item display position interpolation not working.
MC-260054 – Pink Petals hitbox does not adjust to contents.
MC-260058 – Pick Block does not work properly for blank decorated pots.
MC-260085 – Particles are created when using a brush on a barrier.
MC-260096 – Decorated pots don't have creative mode tooltips.
MC-260485 – The /item command cannot remove items within chiseled bookshelves.
MC-260490 – Passenger's riding position is too low for non-default-sized mobs.
MC-260604 – Terrible loudness following consecutive use of /fill.
MC-260675 – Decorated pots render blank on the first frame after being placed.
MC-260819 – The death.attack.message_too_long string is missing an article before the word "stripped".
MC-260844 – Right-clicking will select/move worlds in the multiplayer and singleplayer screens.
MC-260968 – The narrator does not narrate the word "Experimental" in the world selection screen.
MC-261119 – Accessibility button in the Welcome screen needs its own string.
MC-261123 – item_display entity breaks certain mobs' AI when being used as a passenger.
MC-261182 – Sign color looks different in world and in editing screen.
MC-261261 – Sculk sensors do not detect when a chiseled bookshelf changes via hoppers and droppers.
MC-261411 – All Smithing Templates share the same translation key.
MC-261420 – Sculk sensor and calibrated sculk sensor don't detect a witch drinking a potion.
MC-261427 – Sculk sensors and calibrated sculk sensors don't detect totem of undying activating.
MC-261440 – Resizing the window makes it so you can't change names in anvils.
MC-261502 – Prompting resource pack disappears if player dies before installing or disconnecting.
MC-261926 – Cannot join a realm because of realms ad.
MC-261951 – Dragon/piglin head does not move when placed on a jukebox that is playing a record.
MC-262132 – Pigstep music disc is in wrong location in the creative menu.
MC-262295 – Warped and Crimson hanging signs uses their respective plank sounds, despite their stripped stems having unique sounds.
MC-262442 – Camels stand a bit too close to players that are tempting them.
MC-262620 – Llamas and trader llamas need to be tamed in order to be ridden by the mob which is inconsistent with other rideable mobs.
MC-262638 – When a Size:0 slime and magma cube rides on some mobs the rendering position is too low.
MC-262804 – Players' swimming animations are jittery for other players.
MC-263133 – Inconsistent word usage in Out of Memory screen.
MC-263203 – Tadpoles riding striders are rendered inside of them.
From 1.20

MC-261369 – Washed banner does not stack with blank banner.
MC-261611 – Placing blocks against a waxed sign does not play the block's placement sound.
MC-261657 – Sculk sensor range is still spherical, creating different outputs from within a given block.
MC-261739 – Bamboo raft next to visually half blocks z-fights.
MC-261965 – The "Glow and Behold!" advancement is granted when interacting with empty signs while holding glow ink sacs, despite no glow ink sacs being consumed.
MC-262108 – Smithing table GUI issue with custom recipes.
MC-262436 – Copying a pot in creative does not save NBT data.
MC-262591 – Camels emit mob interaction vibrations instead of item consumption vibrations when eating cactus.
MC-262613 – Mobs can't control some rideable mobs.
MC-262615 – Ridden camels need to be equipped with a saddle before they can be moved by mob control which is inconsistent with other rideable mobs.
MC-262636 – Mobs with passengers that are slimes or magma cubes can't move and don't function correctly.
MC-262720 – One of the pink petals' stems has an incomplete model.
MC-262751 – Blank decorated pot's NBT depends on method used to obtain it.
MC-262754 – Change in AbstractScrollWidget breaks MultiLineEditBox click-to-move-cursor behavior.
MC-262766 – NBSP is a valid invisible character that can be added into Book titles so that they have blank names.
MC-262947 – The "Smithing with Style" advancement doesn't grant experience upon completion.
MC-263011 – Sniffers can sniff out and follow players from incredibly large distances.
MC-263049 – Camels indefinitely dash while in lava.
MC-263126 – Sponges no longer make a sound when absorbing water.
MC-263200 – Entities riding baby sniffers render too high.
MC-263283 – Loading a 1.12.2 structure block with signs on 1.20 removes the text.
MC-263313 – You cannot use the ↹ Tab key to initially create a realm.
MC-263322 – When a camel walks on suspicious sand, the sound produced is "camel steps" instead of "camel sands".
MC-263387 – The chat scroll bar no longer renders.
MC-263430 – Memory leak in TickingTracker.
From 1.20.1

MC-263588 – Unbreakable blocks display the first breaking animation frame in client, when other player attempting to mine them in server.
MC-263833 – Minecraft is incorrectly assuming it is able to set the window icon on Wayland.
MC-263879 – Open shulker boxes transmit redstone power.
MC-264092 – Functions execute commands out of order when containing /say.
MC-264233 – Player is shown as Anonymous after dying and respawning.
MC-264260 – Furnace GUI is displayed incorrectly when modifying block data.
MC-264356 – Sniffers attached to a lead will dig in the same spot forever, ignoring "explored positions".
MC-264467 – GUI texture villager2.png contains unused sections.
MC-264468 – GUI texture legacy_smithing.png still present in game files despite not being used anymore.
MC-264561 – Some new strings introduced in 23w31a are missing articles.
MC-264574 – symlink does not work for root world folder.
MC-264809 – Redstone comparators cause redstone dust connection issue.
MC-264829 – Text Filter on signs doesn't hide if fully filtered.
MC-265151 – The "(Unknown)" string that's displayed when being banned from a server for an unknown reason is untranslatable.


== Videos ==


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==