1.7.2, the release of The Update that Changed the World, is a major update to Java Edition released on October 25, 2013, which added many new biomes, new flowers, stained glass, better networking, new commands and more.
A pre-release for 1.7.2 was released earlier on October 25, 2013, though the full release of 1.7.2 is identical to this pre-release.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Flowers

Allium
Can be crafted into magenta dye.
Azure bluet
Can be crafted into light gray dye.
Blue orchid
Can be crafted into light blue dye.
Oxeye daisy
Can be crafted into light gray dye.
Poppy
Replacement for the rose; looks very similar to it.
Can be crafted into red dye.
All new flowers can burn.
All new flowers are randomly offset horizontally, like tall grass.
Red, orange, white and pink tulips.
Can be crafted to red, orange, light gray and pink dyes, respectively.
 Two block tall plants

Applying bone meal to them causes them to dispense their respective plant item. Therefore, all two block tall flowers are renewable.
Lilacs
Can be crafted into 2 magenta dye.
Peonies
Can be crafted into 2 pink dye.
Rose bushes
Can be crafted into 2 red dye.
Sunflowers
Always face east.
Can be crafted into 2 yellow dye.
Tall grass
Can be made by applying bone meal to grass.
Large ferns
Two block tall variant of fern.
Can be made by applying bone meal to ferns.
All new two block tall plants can burn.
All new two block tall plants are randomly offset horizontally, like grass.
 Packed ice

When broken, it does not turn into water, like normal ice blocks do.
Does not melt.
Opaque, rather than translucent like normal ice.
Found naturally only in the ice plains spikes biome.
 Podzol

Dirt variant that cannot be transformed into dirt.
Grass and mycelium cannot grow on it.
Does not spread.
Found naturally only in mega taiga biomes.
 Grassless dirt

Grass and mycelium cannot grow on it.
Obtainable only through commands.
Does not spread.
 Infested blocks

New variants added:
Cracked stone bricks, mossy stone bricks and chiseled stone bricks.
 Red sand

Generated in the mesa biome.
Behaves like normal sand.
Falls like sand or gravel.
Can be smelted into glass and crafted into TNT.
 Stained glass
 Stained glass panes

Glass can be dyed into all 16 colors.
This is done by putting a colored dye in the center of a crafting table and surrounding it with 8 pieces of normal glass, yielding 8 stained glass.
Stained glass can be crafted into stained glass panes using the same recipe as normal glass panes.
Water, nether portals and other stained glass blocks remain visible when looked at through a stained glass block.
Looking through a solid wall of glass blocks is equivalent to looking through a single piece (this does not apply to glass panes of any kind).
Air blocks make the view blurrier each time.
Adjacent glass of different colors ignore each other's colors, and render only the terrain behind, with the color of the outermost piece of glass.
Other translucent blocks may have different effects.
Has ID number 95, which replaces the locked chest's data value.
 Wood, barks and planks

Acacia wood
Silver outside with orange inside.
Makes up the acacia tree which is found in savanna biomes.
Acacia wood planks
Orange in appearance.
Can be crafted into stairs and slabs.
Dark oak wood
A darker version of oak wood.
Makes up the dark oak tree which is found in roofed forest biomes.
Dark oak wood planks
Same texture as normal oak planks but darkened; almost black.
Can be crafted into stairs and slabs.
 Leaves

Acacia and dark oak leaves
Both visually identical to regular oak leaves.
 Saplings

Acacia and dark oak saplings
Dark oak saplings require a 22 configuration to grow, much like big jungle trees.
A 22 configuration of spruce saplings on the ground can create the large spruce trees from mega taiga biomes.
Regular spruce trees still grow.


=== Items ===
Fish

 Clownfish:
Can be eaten to restore 1 ().
Cannot be cooked.
 Salmon:
Eating it raw restores 2 () and cooked restores 6 ().
 Pufferfish:
Restores 1 ().
If eaten it inflicts the following:
Poison IV (1:00)
Hunger III (0:15)
Nausea (0:15)
Used to brew a potion of Water Breathing.
Cannot be cooked.
Potions

Water Breathing:
Made by brewing a pufferfish with an awkward potion.
Enables the player to breathe underwater for 3 minutes (8 minutes if extended) without the oxygen bar depleting.
The potion and particles are dark blue in appearance.


=== Non-mob entities ===
 Minecart with command block

Can be obtained only using commands.
Activate using activator rails.
Run their command every 2 redstone ticks when powered (activates once when passing over an activator rail at full speed).
Can be success tested by going over a detector rail connected to a redstone comparator.


=== World generation ===
Trees

Acacia tree
Curved trees made of acacia logs.
These spawn in savanna biomes.
Dark oak trees
Very thick and short trees, made of dark oak logs.
These spawn in roofed forest biomes.
Require a 22 configuration of saplings to grow.
Each new tree has their own leaves and saplings.
Biomes

Mesa
Composed of multiple colored hardened clay that are layered in a way that resembles sedimentary rock.
There are seven colors including normal, orange, red, yellow, white, light gray and brown.
Has a floor similar to a desert biome, but made of red sand instead of sand.
Dead bushes spawn in this biome.
Occasional dying forests spawn on top of the clay mountains.
There is no rain in this biome.
Savanna
Generate with acacia trees.
Horses can spawn in this biome.
Villages may generate in here.
There is no rain in this biome.
Very flat with plateaus and the occasional giant mountain.
Roofed forest
Generates with giant mushrooms.
Aside from mushroom island, it is the only biome to do so.
Has dark oak trees closely packed together  "dark and dangerous under the canopy, even during the day".
Monsters can spawn during the day and the night.
Birch forest
A forest made entirely of birch trees.
Cold taiga
Snowy variant of the taiga biome.
Regular taigas now generate without snow. In old worlds, old taigas keep the snow that had already been generated, but the weather is changed to rain.
Mega taiga
A very rare biome.
Generates 22 spruce trees and their regular variant.
Has a dirt block variant known as podzol.
Currently obtained only through the Silk Touch enchantment.
Contains dirt blocks that do not allow grass to grow.
Mossy cobblestone "boulders" are scattered around in this biome.
Dead bushes, mushrooms and ferns spawn in this biome.
Extreme hills+
Lacks stone on the surface and generates more trees and ground vegetation than the normal extreme hills.
Goes considerably higher than the normal extreme hills.
Deep ocean
Is about ten blocks deeper than normal oceans; the maximum depth is in the low 30 blocks.
Biome variants/Technical biomes

Sunflower plains
Exactly the same as plains, but can spawn sunflowers.
Flower forest
Forest variant with several of the new flowers including peonies, orange tulips, white tulips, oxeye daisies, rose bush and allium.
Very densely packed with the various new flowers, including dandelions, but excluding sunflowers.
Ice plains spikes
Generates tall spires made of packed ice.
On the surface, snow blocks generate instead of grass.
Mesa (Bryce)
A rare variant of the mesa biome which works similar to ice spikes, with tall clay spikes generating from the sandy mesa floor.
Jungle edge
It generates around jungles, slowly leading into them.
It has considerably less foliage than the normal jungle.
Mutated biomes  Biomes with an M variant are much rarer than any other variant.
Desert M has patches of water unlike normal deserts.
Extreme hills M and extreme hills+ M replace most of the grass and stone on the surface with gravel.
Birch forest M and birch forest hills M have taller birch trees than usual.
Savanna M and savanna plateau M have grassless dirt (coarse dirt in 1.8 and above) and mountains that can generate above the clouds and up to Y=220 on rare occasions.
Mega spruce taiga and redwood taiga hills M generate giant spruce trees with more leaves covering their trunks.
Taiga M, roofed forest M, cold taiga M, swampland M, jungle M, jungle edge M, mesa plateau M and mesa plateau F M are more mountainous versions of their normal biome counterpart.
Plateaus  Biomes with a plateau variant are like the hills technical biome, but flattened at the top.
Savanna plateau and mesa plateau are the only examples.
These are landforms which are raised by up to about 30 blocks and have flat tops.
Mesa plateau F  A variant of the mesa plateau with trees and a grassy and dirty ground.
Hills  More technical hills biomes have been added to fit with the new biomes.
Birch forest hills, cold taiga hills, and mega taiga hills can now be generated.
Beaches  New variants have been added to fit with different biomes.
Stone beach is composed mainly of stone and often generates between an extreme hills biome and a body of water.
Cold beach is composed of sand with a layer of snow on top.
Usually generates between a cold biome, such as ice plains, and a body of water.
World type

AMPLIFIED
It scales up all world generation rules, so it uses the entire world height.
Almost all biomes can generate huge mountains that reach well above Y=200.
Extreme hills biomes frequently reach the world height limit at Y=256.
Swampland and ocean biomes are unaffected by this world type.
Extremely resource intensive and requires powerful computer to run.
Ravines here can reach down to bedrock.
Contains numerous various landforms that are very rare or non-existent in default generation.
Some examples include floating islands, overhangs, large water and lava falls and huge indents.
Taiga biomes reach such altitudes that snow starts generating (about Y=130).
It was created to test a fix, to reduce the number of lighting glitches, but it was kept as a feature on request of Notch.


=== Command format ===
Commands

/setidletimeout
Automatically kick idle players after some time.
Multiplayer-only and server-operator-only command.
Syntax: /setidletimeout <Minutes until kick>.
/tellraw
Is written in json to create "buttons" and formatted text (underlined, bold, italics, colored, etc.) in chat.
Syntax: /tellraw <player> <raw json message>.
/summon
Used to spawn any entity in the game, including giants, ender crystals, ender dragons, falling sand and primed TNT.
Syntax: /summon <EntityName> [x] [y] [z] [dataTag].
/achievement
Used to give a player achievements.
Syntax: /achievement give <stat_name> [player].
/setblock
Used to create, delete or replace a block.
Syntax: /setblock [x] [y] [z] <BlockID> [data] [method] [dataTag].
/testforblock
Checks for blocks in specific locations.
Syntax: /testforblock <x> <y> <z> <TileName> [dataValue] [dataTag].
/setworldspawn
Sets the world spawn point for all players, even those who have never joined the server or are offline.
Does not automatically override beds.
Syntax: /setworldspawn [x] [y] [z].


=== General ===
Splashes

"Now contains 32 random daily cats!"
Particle effects

Fishing has particle effects.
Bubbles appear moving toward the bobber just before the player has something on the hook. This has the appearance of a fish swimming toward the hook.
Falling has particle effects.
Particle circumference size depends on distance fallen.
Particle appearance depends on the block landed.
Achievements

The player can now zoom in and out the display of the screen.

Statistics

Distance by horse
Animals bred
Junk fished
Treasure fished


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
 Logs

The top textures of wood logs were changed to match their side texture.
 Wooden slabs

Can smelt half as many items as wood planks, when used as fuel.
 Weighted pressure plates

Now output a signal relative to the amount of entities on them, always starting at 1 signal strength if any entities are present.
For light weighted pressure plates, every entity adds 1 strength to the signal.
For heavy weighted pressure plates, starting at 1, every 10 entities adds 1 strength to the signal (Example: 11 entities increases signal strength to 2).
 Cauldrons

Cauldrons with water in them extinguish burning entities, taking away one water level each time.
 Sugar cane

Color/shade is affected by the biome color (similar to leaves, grass and vines).
 Dead bushes

Can be placed on hardened clay, stained clay, red sand and dirt.
 Roses

Removed and replaced by poppies.
Look very similar to the old roses.
Still exist in the form of rose bushes.
Air

Is now a block rather than the absence of a block.
This allows for specific air blocks to be marked and identified through data values.
It lacks an item form.
Attempting to /give it to a player results in that inventory slot having no item.
 Command blocks

Show what command it ran recently in the GUI.
Extended character limit past the 10,000 mark.
 Locked chest

Removed completely.
 Iron bars and  glass panes

Connect to each other and glass blocks.
This includes panes of different colors.
They are exactly 2 pixels thick.
 Ferns,  dandelions and  dead bushes

Are now randomly offset horizontally like grass.
 Ice,  nether portal blocks, and  water

Are visible through each other.
If water is directly adjacent to ice, when looking through the ice, the player cannot see the water, but not vice versa.
This allows for custom fish tanks.
If water is not directly adjacent to ice, the player can see the water through ice and vice versa.
The player can no longer see the water surface from underwater.


=== Items ===
 Enchanted books

Can receive multiple enchants at once.
 Written books

Can be cloned by crafting them with an unused book and quill.
Can clone multiple copies of the same written book, by putting more book and quills in the crafting grid.
A book can be cloned infinitely many times, regardless if it's the original.
Can now be stacked up to 16.
 Maps

Maps in item frames cover the whole block face, so that connected maps join together smoothly.
They won't display player markers then.
Each different type of block has a different shading on the map.
It now show colors for colored wool and stained clay, allowing a wider range of colors visible on maps.
 Flint and steel

Is now a shapeless crafting recipe.
Can be used to ignite creepers.
 Fishing rods

Can now be enchanted to bias the resulting loot from fishing.
 Shears, fishing rods and flint and steel

Can be enchanted with Unbreaking.
Spawn eggs

Now work on lava.
Poppy and Dandelion

Now only yield 1 dye item instead of 2.
Technical blocks

Removed the item forms of the following blocks:
Bed (26), piston head and extension (34 & 36), redstone wire (55), wheat crops (59), standing and wall sign (63 & 68), wooden and iron doors (64 & 71), lit redstone ore (74), unlit redstone torch (75), sugar cane (83), cake (92), unpowered and powered repeater (93 & 94), pumpkin and melon stem (104 & 105), nether wart (115), brewing stand (117), cauldron (118), lit redstone lamp (124), tripwire (132), flower pot (140), skull (144), and unpowered and powered comparator (149 & 150).
They can no longer be obtained with /give or /summon, but can still be placed as blocks with /setblock, /blockdata or summoning a special falling sand entity.


=== Mobs ===
 Iron golems

Drop poppies instead of roses.
 Creepers

Can be detonated using a flint and steel.
 Zombies

Reduced the lag that zombies created by pathfinding.
Are no longer always able to break wooden doors in Hard mode.
They spawn with up to a 10% chance to have this ability.
 Witches

Now drink a potion of Water Breathing, when they are trapped underwater.
Can drop a potion of Water Breathing upon death, as a rare drop.
Have been added to the mix of low light-level hostile mobs, spawning anywhere where the light level is below 7, including at night in every biome and in caverns.
They usually spawn in groups.
They have roughly the same spawn rate as the enderman.
 Zombies and  skeletons

Zombies and skeletons can now spawn with and drop armor, bows and swords with the "Unbreaking" enchantment.
 Baby zombies and  baby zombie pigmen

Can walk in one block tall spaces.
Their hitbox remains the size of that of an adult.
 Spiders,  cave spiders,  endermen,  zombie pigmen and  blazes

Don't become hostile when attacking them in Creative mode.


=== Non-mob entities ===
 Item frames

Now drop the item inside them when they are punched.
Then drop themselves if they are punched while empty.
Displays the name of the item they hold (if it is custom-named) when looked at up close.
Maps display on the full face of the block.
They won't display player markers then.
The side texture then is similar to that of oak planks.
 Boats

No longer inflict fall damage when running aground (old boats need to be replaced for the fix to apply).
Slightly improved durability from lily pad impacts.
Boats have been reverted to the previous "WASD" controls.
The A and D keys can be used only while the W key is pressed.


=== World generation ===

Biomes

Jungle
Melons can now be found in patches similar to pumpkins.
Jungle biomes have been made much rarer.
Has a jungle edge which has less foliage, but slowly leads into the main jungle.
Jungle trees now generate with branches.
Swampland
Grass is greener and fluctuates more in color, depending on biome temperature.
In shallower parts, the coast is covered in staggered dirt block with lily pads between them.
Spawn with blue orchid flowers.
Plains
Generates three of the new flowers  azure bluets, oxeye daisies and sometimes tulips.
Double tall grass can also generate here.
Extreme hills
Snow at high elevations of over Y=95.
Contain stone and large dirt patches.
Flat valleys near sea level.
Can generate up to Y=150, slightly above the clouds (previously Y=124).
Has much more height variation and has flat parts as well, as opposed to the previous extreme hills which forced endless high peaks to generate.
The extreme hills edge variant no longer generates.
Taiga
Now generates without snow.
Snowy taigas have been implemented as a separate, new biome called "cold taiga".
Ocean
Oceans are smaller and take up much less of the map.
Contains only gravel on the floor instead of sand, dirt and gravel.
The frozen ocean variant no longer generates.
River
Gravel can now generate in disks.
Biome categorization

Four main categories based on temperature:
Snow-covered, cold, medium and dry/warm.
Biomes avoid getting placed next to a biome that is too different to itself.
Biome elevation

Much greater variation of elevation in general.
Most biomes can generate to Y=100.
Hills technical biomes have been made taller.
Temperature

Each biome has a base temperature that determines whether the biome is snow-covered, whether it rains or snows, or whether it rains at all.
Biomes are grouped according to their temperature and attempt to generate next to biomes with similar temperatures.
Temperature decreases by 0.05 every 30 blocks increase in altitude.
Caverns

Are less dense and interconnected.
Witch huts

Now generate with a witch inside.
They formerly generated empty, with witches spawning inside later.
Bonus chests

Can now contain acacia logs.
World boundary

All blocks beyond X/Z 30 million (30,000,000) from origin now act as solid blocks.
This includes air blocks.
This creates essentially an invisible wall at the boundary.
This boundary and blocks beyond it cannot be selected, and are unbreakable by any means.
Despite functioning like a solid block, it cannot be placed using the /setblock command, and does not exist in an item form, unlike other blocks.
As all blocks function as solid, if the player is moved outside the boundary via external tools, they are unable to move outside the block space they are within.
Despite that, the camera can still move normally.
Ghost chunks still generate.
Spiders can climb this boundary, since all blocks function as solid.


=== Gameplay ===
Fishing

Items other than fish can be obtained by fishing.
These are divided into three classes.
Fish: raw fish, raw salmon, clownfish and pufferfish.
Treasure: enchanted fishing rods, enchanted bow, enchanted books, name tags, tripwire hook, lily pads and saddles.
Junk: damaged fishing rods, water bottles, rotten flesh, string, leather, bowls, sticks, bones, tripwire hooks, ten stacked ink sacs and damaged leather boots.
Enchanting

"Unbreaking" can now be applied to any item with durability.
Armor, bows, fishing rods & swords can receive the enchantment directly without the use of enchanted books.
New enchantments for fishing rods that can bias the outcome of fishing.
Lure  reduces wait time to catch an item; increases the chance of catching fish and decreases the chance of junk and treasure.
Luck of the Sea  increases chance of getting treasure and decreases chance of getting junk.
Enchanted books can receive multiple enchantments at once.
Nether portal

Can now have different width and height, to allow for design variations.
If the one in the Nether is big enough, ghasts can go through them.
Portals can be activated when any fire block appears inside the frame.
Before only the bottom-most blocks would work.
New nether portal building rules: Any rectangular size from 45 to 2323.
Fog

Fog now covers 25% of the view distance instead of 75%.
Death screen

If the player dies and selects the 'Title screen' button, a prompt asks if they are sure they want to quit, and give the player the options to go to the title screen or respawn and continue playing.


=== Command format ===
Scoreboard

Can now use statistics and achievements to create objectives.
Added 744 new objective criteria that were previously tracked only through statistics and achievements.
Commands

/time set day
Sets the time to 1000 instead of 0.
/time set night
Sets the time to 13000 instead of 12000.
Custom NBT data can be added via commands.
Works with /give, /summon, and /setblock.
Syntax examples:
/give @p 1 1 0 {display:{Lore:["Hi,","How are you?"],Name:"Nice Stone Block"},ench:[{id:1,lvl:10}]}
/summon Pig ~ ~ ~ {Saddle:1,CustomName:"Babe",CustomNameVisible:1}
/setblock ~ ~ ~ 397 3 replace {SkullOwner:MHF_Pig}
This removes the need to use external tools.
/give
Prints renamed items' name by default in chat. The chat shows the corresponding tooltips when hovered over.
NBT format

Unbreakable tag.
Applies to items with durability.
Nullifies any usage dealt to the item.
List tags no longer need to be named.
No longer crashes when given the wrong type (integer/short).
Added <structure>.dat files in data folder for storing structure data.
Contains .dat called Village.dat, Fortress.dat (Nether Fortress), Temple.dat (Desert temple, jungle temple and witch hut), Stronghold.dat, Mineshaft.dat and others.
NBT structure consists of the individual parts of each structure, labeled "children", the chunk it originates in, a tag called BB, and an ID for what type of structure it is.
The children tags have information on each part of the structure and the type of part it is.
Block/Item IDs

Can be referred to by their names, instead of numbers in commands.
Named references are planned to be be the only option in the future.
Necessary for the Plugin API.


=== General ===
Block and entity bounding boxes are now completely black instead of dark gray.
The entity hitbox toggled with F3 + B is now completely transparent, with a thin white outline.
Resource packs

Complete menu overhaul with two columns, for selecting which of the downloaded resource packs should be rendered.
The ability to select multiple resource packs at once.
Resource packs at the top take precedence over those below, if files appear more than once.
Allows for non-manual merging of multiple packs.
For example: a sound pack and a different texture pack, etc.
Servers can now offer default resource packs.
Can be configured to be "enabled", "disabled" or "prompted".
The player is now able to add new sounds using resource packs, rather than replacing previously existing sounds.
Resource packs can remove, supplement, randomize and group sounds using JSON.
Maximum total size increased to 50 MB.
Sounds

Sounds and music are stored together in the new .minecraft/assets/sounds folder.
Music now pauses when pausing the game.
Lighting

Several lighting issues fixed.
A lot fewer "black spots" in terrain generation.
Some black spots occurrences have to be kept, in order to avoid a bug in world generation, associated with a complete removal of them.
Torch bugs in strongholds and mineshafts have been fixed.
The light level actually falls to 7 during thunderstorms.
Before it stayed at 12 like normal rain, but hostile mobs could spawn as if the light level was 7.
The clouds go black and the sky goes much darker.
Chat system

"Saved screenshot as" messages can be clicked to open the screenshots.
It takes the player out of the game and into the ".minecraft" folder.
Ability to open a URL from the chat by clicking on it.
Names can be clicked to DM people.
Support for both hover and click events on the chat through /tellraw <player> <raw json message>.
Syntax example: /tellraw @p {text:"Daytime? ",color:"green",extra:[{text:"Click here!",color:"blue",clickEvent:{action:"run_command",value:"/time set day"}},{text:" Nighttime? "},{text:"Click here!",color:"blue",clickEvent:{action:"run_command",value:"/time set night"}},{text:" Have fun!"}]}.
Inventory

In Creative mode, the display symbol for the "Decoration Blocks" tab was changed from rose to peony.
The armor boxes go black when the cursor is away from them.
Putting the cursor over an armor box causes it to display what armor is put there.
Title screen

A warning message now appears on computers with a graphics card that does not support OpenGL 2.1, warning the player that their configuration may prevent them from playing a future version.
Clicking on the warning will take the player to a page on the Mojang Support website, with more information about Minecraft's system requirements.
Options

Grouped a few options into the controls section:
Allowed rebinding of 19 hotkeys, screenshot key, cinematic camera toggle (can be rebinded and no longer has a default key) and camera switching.
Added sprint button, which is kept engaged while held (it's left control by default).
Double tapping forward still works.
Music & sounds
Now divided into different classes, to control each one independently:
Master volume, music, jukebox/noteblocks, weather, blocks, hostile creatures, friendly creatures, players and ambient/environment.
Video settings
Render distance is now a slider ranging from 216 chunks.
Max framerate is now a slider ranging from 10250 fps or unlimited.
Mipmapping can be set to levels 14 or disabled.
Anisotropic filtering can be set to 2, 4, 8, 16 or disabled.
"Super Secret Settings"
Plays a random sound when clicked and cycles through various shaders: fxaa, art, bumpy, blobs2, pencil, color_convolve, deconverge, flip, invert, ntsc, outline, phosphor, scan_pincushion, sobel, bits, desaturate, green, blur, wobble, blobs, anti-alias and then back to normal.
The player can remove the shader by pressing F4.
Language selection
Added 'Force Unicode Font' toggle, which allows the player to change whether Unicode font, is forced for text or not.
Network code

Completely rewritten  uses Netty.
Most packets won't change, handshake and ping procedure redone.
There is now a packet length header.
Logging

Now done using Log4j 2.
Default logging location is now in logs/latest.logs; older logs are archived in logs/<year>-<month>-<day>-1.lg.gz with the number at the end increasing each startup.
The way logs are saved can be changed, for example: html pages, databases, errors only, or no logging at all.
Server list

Can be refreshed using F5.
Added server icons.
Added support for multi-line MOTD comments, which do not go off-screen.
Hovering over the player count shows the names of up to 12 online players.
Minecraft Realms

Started preparing buying support internally.
Started offering an option to download the world map.
Statistics

Are now stored per world/server.
Achievement screen can be zoomed in and out using the scroll wheel.
Achievements don't appear on the achievements screen if more than five achievements need to be achieved first.
When a player earns an achievement, it is announced in chat.
This can be turned off on servers by changing a line in the server.properties file.
Can be hovered over to show an achievement tooltip.
Cannot be turned off in singleplayer.
The achievements 'Time to Mine!', 'Time to Strike!' and 'Time to Farm!' are now obtainable by crafting the given tool with a material other than wood.
Achievements

Are stored per world/server on the same folder as statistics.
Statistics for blocks, items and mobs don't appear on their respective tab in the statistics screen, until it is updated to be more than zero.


== Removals ==


=== General ===
Distance effects

Item frames no longer follow the camera at extreme coordinates.


== Fixes ==
97 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.7.2

MC-242  Sprinting works inconsistently - very aggravating on PVP servers
MC-673  Sky/lighting doesn't get darker during a thunderstorm
MC-715  V-Sync in Window mode, settings not activated between sessions
MC-784  Letters in Arabic language aren't connected
MC-944  Armor with Protection on it seems to reduce against hunger damage
MC-1000  Some Zombie Pigmen are missing their swords in the nether
MC-1018  Black Lighting under overhangs
MC-1105  Villagers act like it is Raining when they are in the Desert, and it Rains elsewhere
MC-1262  Birch and Spruce trees do not grow directly next to one another
MC-1379  Transparent texture makes transparent texture behind invisible
MC-1865  Spawn eggs and firework stars are pure white when held by zombies
MC-2638  Once hit old AI mobs and Wolves don't turn back to passive in Creative until they die or despawn
MC-2915  Attempting to tp to an invalid coordinate returns "commands.generic.double.invalid"
MC-3305  Cyrillic font not displaying on signs and in chat (Russian language)
MC-3575  Double-clicking to join a server results in 'cancel' button activating
MC-3871  Cauldron water does not put out fire / damage blaze
MC-3973  Silk Touch, pre-lit Redstone Lamps
MC-4150  Baby Zombies do not drop any loot / xp
MC-4482  Saplings placed on Farmland are not affected by Bonemeal
MC-4592  When mobs start to attack you in survival and you switch to creative mobs keep attacking you
MC-4630  Sound level resets
MC-4921  Sounds (e.g. Mobs / Portals / Water) Don't Immediately Fade
MC-4973  Zombie Pigman from Nether Portal still spawns even if doMobSpawning is false
MC-5238  10 MB server texture pack limit too small
MC-5550  Night Time Doesn't Immediately Allow Sleep
MC-6820  The generation of terrain surface layer produces local straight glitches (fix included)
MC-7449  Silverfish enter Chiseled Stone Brick, and the Chiseled Stone Brick appears as normal stone brick
MC-8331  Command block text disappears if it's too long
MC-9271  Opening a singleplayer world is counted as a multiplayer join in the statistics
MC-9547  Incorrect usage string for `/scoreboard teams empty`
MC-9686  Right- and left clicking at the same time causes a block to be placed on top of a block which then gets removed
MC-10077  Adjacent Obsidian Blocks prevent Nether portal appearing
MC-10257  When a pig gets struck by lightning it spawns a Zombie Pigman without a sword
MC-10984  GS4 query listener fails to send player list when len(players) > 127
MC-11027  Axes accelarate the speed at which Slabs are broken
MC-11037  Uncapped framerate in certain screens causes high levels of GPU usage
MC-11518  RCON and Scoreboard Command Output Formatting
MC-12450  Missing usage string commands.scoreboard.players.list.usage
MC-12452  Scoreboard team join command fails on invalid team name
MC-12454  Scoreboard option seeFriendlyInvisibles not listed in usage
MC-12541  The letters for the 'off' setting on smooth lighting aren't capitalized
MC-12731  Minecraft crashes if you click edit or delete on a LAN game
MC-12769  When typing /help with a number higher than 4, it produces the wrong message
MC-12913  When using an invalid number/name to the /weather command, no message are produced
MC-12984  Getting a locked chest pushed into your head crashes the game
MC-13565  Fireworks sometimes don't stack when they should
MC-13661  When re-sizing window before game loads internal view doesn't resize
MC-14165  Attaching/detaching lead from far away in creative client-server desync
MC-14483  When game opens in fullscreen, Realms Button is misplaced
MC-14518  When you try to get on a horse from far away, you look a different direction
MC-14865  Carpets Are Not Flammable
MC-15189  Cobblestone Wall with blocks on top shows black light on its north side with Maximum Smooth Lighting
MC-15193  Invisible Mooshrooms after shearing them through slabs
MC-15548  Breeding mobs from far away in creative client-server desync
MC-15688  Axe breaks all slabs in adventure mode - No drops for stone
MC-16324  Massive Amount of "[SEVERE] Reached end of stream" messages in Minecraft server terminal when client pings the server
MC-16435  Boats Still Break on Lily's
MC-16849  Crash near pyramid
MC-16910  Packet250CustomPayload(dk)
MC-17090  Invalid teamcolors throw an NPE in the console rather than an error message "invalid color"
MC-18569  Server resource packs not implemented yet
MC-18672  Textures disappearing after setting player walkSpeed to 0
MC-19483  Sounds playing after leaving world
MC-19604  Cannot /playsound records
MC-19623  /playsound does not accept non-integer values
MC-19654  Passive mobs don't spawn if you're riding a horse
MC-21223  When fishing, sometimes the 'splash' noise when the bobber goes underwater does not exist
MC-21870  Screen goes blank when modifying walk speed
MC-22450  Portal death item duplication glitch
MC-22927  Animals running forever after being hit
MC-25311  Loading bar for Minecraft Realms/Online is bugged
MC-26151  Minecraft has advice on an error report that should be deleted
MC-26608  /spreadplayers confirmation text is wrong
MC-26660  Constant minecart sound
MC-27284  /scoreboard teams option color: Tab doesn't list all options
MC-27364  Fullscreen mode displays only on part of screen
MC-27904  The Hindi, Malay and Norsk (Bokmal) language appear 2 times
MC-28400  Breeding animals gives xp even if doMobLoot gamerule is false
MC-28405  The saddle equip sound effect does not play when equipping a pig with a saddle
MC-28478  Successful hit sound effect does not match the sound in the assets sound folder
MC-28625  The horse armor equip sound does not play when replacing it with already equipped armor
MC-28768  Horse Breeding Doesn't Produce Markings Correctly on Foal
MC-29088  Shearing sound does not play when shearing a mooshroom
MC-29279  Bug: the command block can be damaged by the explosion of Blue Wither Skulls
MC-29321  Jukeboxes play at the sound volume for effects until you change the music volume
MC-29361  Oceans are too big
MC-29424  Players appear offset for other clients after going through nether portals
MC-30070  Flowing lava can be blown up by TNT
MC-30816  Nether Portal has odd texture when looking at it from certain angles with Fast Graphics
MC-30823  Sky changes color in Achievements window
MC-31031  Spawn eggs can be used on top of water, but not lava
MC-32250  Typo on "Unable to Load Worlds" screen
MC-33093  Cannot enter fullscreen reliably on Linux
MC-33108  Incorrect death messages after PvP
MC-34617  Animation crash if frame #0 is not referenced
MC-35343  Canadian English Language Selection Screen
MC-35718  Language is broken


=== Release fixes ===
These fixes occurred between the last 1.7.2 development version, 1.7.1, and the release of 1.7.2.

7 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.7.2

MC-1865  Spawn eggs and firework stars are pure white when held by zombies.
MC-15189  Cobblestone wall with blocks on top shows black light on its North side with Maximum Smooth Lighting.
From the 1.7.2 development versions

MC-30402  Default resource pack says "Missing pack.mcmeta".
MC-32436  Maps from one world copied to another world and more.
MC-33092  Custom mob spawners first spawn unedited mob, then the correct mob.
MC-36228  The outline of blocks targeted by the crosshairs are not visible under/behind water.
MC-36778  Block selection cursor is no longer transparent.


== Trivia ==
1.7.2 was released exactly one year after Java Edition 1.4.2.
The Update that Changed the World was in development for over a year.
This is the last major release to have a 1.x.x release number.
This is also the last version to use the old Mojang logo from 2011.


== References ==


== Navigation ==