1.14, the release of Village & Pillage and the Texture Update, is a major update to Java Edition released on April 23, 2019. It focuses mainly on villages, adding a new type of illagers known as pillagers, and redesigns village architecture to match the biome it is located in. This update also introduces many new blocks and mobs, revamps the crafting system by moving some functionalities to different blocks, updates the taiga biome with foxes and sweet berries, and adds a new bamboo jungle biome along with bamboo and pandas. It is also the first major release to include the new textures of the Texture Update.
Originally, 1.14 was planned to be the version number for Update Aquatic, but the numbering was changed when the Technically Updated release (planned earlier as 1.13) was merged with the actual Update Aquatic 1.13, making 1.14 version number available for the next (i.e. Village & Pillage) update.
The update was originally revealed during the MINECON Earth 2018 livestream on September 29, 2018.
This is the first version released in 2019.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Bamboo

Can be found scattered around jungles and in large clusters in bamboo jungles.
Can be found in shipwrecks and jungle temples.
Dropped by pandas when killed, or can be obtained when fishing in jungle biomes.
Can be farmed and grow up to 1216 blocks tall.
Grows 12 blocks taller when bone meal is used on the block.
Can be eaten by pandas, used as fuel (four bamboo can smelt one item), or planted inside a flower pot.
Can be used to craft sticks and scaffolding.
 Flowers

Added Cornflower.
Can be crafted into blue dye.
Appear in plains biomes.
Added Wither Rose.
Can be crafted into black dye.
Inflicts 1 second of Wither status effect to players and mobs around it, when in any difficulty besides Peaceful.
Is dropped or planted from any non-undead mob being killed by the wither.
Added Lily of the Valley.
Can be crafted into white dye.
Appear in forest biomes.
 Looms

Can be crafted with 2 string on top of 2 planks.
Generate in village shepherd houses.
Act as the shepherd villager's job site.
Easier way to apply patterns to banners: the purpose is to color and design banners, which was previously done in the crafting grid.
Have a slot for a banner, a dye and a banner pattern.
Generic patterns now only require 1 dye.
Removed existing banner recipes.
Special banner patterns can now be crafted into a new item, banner patterns.
Craftable using paper and the special pattern items.
These patterns don't consume the pattern item when used in the loom.
Available banner patterns are shown as a list.

 Signs

Added spruce, birch, acacia, jungle, and dark oak signs: signs now come in all different wood types.
Sign text's color can now be changed by right-clicking them with any of the 16 dyes.

 Slabs

Added stone, andesite, polished andesite, diorite, polished diorite, granite, polished granite, mossy stone brick, mossy cobblestone, smooth sandstone, cut sandstone, smooth red sandstone, cut red sandstone, smooth quartz, red nether brick, and End stone brick slabs.

 Stairs

Added stone, andesite, polished andesite, diorite, polished diorite, granite, polished granite, mossy stone brick, mossy cobblestone, smooth sandstone, smooth red sandstone, smooth quartz, red nether brick, and End stone brick stairs.

 Walls

Added brick, andesite, diorite, granite, prismarine, stone brick, mossy stone brick, sandstone, red sandstone, nether brick, red nether brick, and End stone brick walls.

 Barrels

Act as a storage unit, with the inventory of a chest.
However, unlike a chest, work in tight spaces and can be opened even with a solid block above them.
Can be crafted using 6 planks, and two slabs
Generate in village fisher cottages.
Act as the fisherman villager's job site.
Can be filled by droppers and filled and emptied by hoppers.

 Bells

Play a swinging animation and a sound when right-clicked.
Based on the position and facing of the player, bells can only be hit in some certain directions, and only swings on that axis. For example, if the player is standing to the north of a bell and hits the bell, it swings north/south.
Generate in village meeting points.
Can be anchored to top and bottom block, as well as walls, with different texture for each.
Pop off as an item when the anchored block is destroyed or moved.
Hitting a bell during a raid applies the Glowing effect to raiding illagers within 32 blocks of it.
Hitting a bell also wakes nearby sleeping villagers.
 Blast furnaces

New furnace upgrade that allows for the smelting of ores and melting of metals faster than the traditional furnace.
Twice as fast as a regular furnace.
Can only smelt ores and melt metals.
Can be crafted using 3 smooth stone, 1 furnace, and 5 iron ingots.
Generate in village armorer houses.
Act as the armorer villager's job site.
Have support for hopper and dropper inputs and outputs.

 Smokers

New furnace upgrade that allows for cooking food faster than the traditional furnace.
Twice as fast as a regular furnace.
Can only smelt and cook food.
Can be crafted using 4 of any log/wood and 1 furnace.
Generate in village butcher shops.
Act as the butcher villager's job site.
Have support for hopper and dropper inputs and outputs.

 Cartography tables

Can be crafted with 2 paper and 4 wooden planks.
UI visualizes the function of the recipes.
Allows cloning, extending, and locking of maps.
Locking can be done with a glass pane to prevent modifying them.
Generate in village cartographer houses.
Act as the cartographer villager's job site.

 Fletching tables

Generate in village fletcher houses.
Can be crafted with 4 planks and 2 flint.
Act as the fletcher villager's job site.

 Smithing tables

Generate in village toolsmith houses.
Can be crafted with 4 planks and 2 iron ingots.
Act as the toolsmith villager's job site.

 Stonecutters

Can be used as a simpler and cheaper way to craft various stone variants (stairs, slabs, bricks, walls, chiseled, etc.).
Can be crafted with 3 stone blocks and 1 iron ingot.
Generate in village mason houses.
Act as the mason villager's job site.

 Grindstones

Craftable with 2 sticks, a stone slab, and 2 planks.
Generate in village weaponsmiths.
Act as the weaponsmith villager's job site.
Have a GUI with 2 input slots and 1 output slot.
Remove any non-curse enchantment(s) from an item.
Give the player experience back for each enchantment removed.
Weapons, tools, armor and enchanted books can have their enchantments removed with this block.
Can repair items by combining them together.
Can be placed on the top, bottom, or side of a block.

 Lecterns

Were an idea originally scrapped from 2012.
Unique model based on the scrapped design.
Can be crafted from slabs and bookshelves.
Right-click empty lectern to place book.
Right-click lectern with book to open.
Multiple players can read the book at the same time, without having the item.
The current page is persistent and shared between all readers.
Book can be removed from it.
Emits redstone pulses when the page is changed.
Redstone comparators can be used to get book reading progress.
Generate in village libraries.
Act as the librarian villager's job site.

 Scaffolding

A new, quickly climbable block that can be crafted using bamboo and string.
The player can build a pillar of scaffolding by just pressing use on the top face of a scaffolding block, as well as place scaffolding to the side.
The entire structure breaks when the bottom block is broken.
The player can climb up a block by jumping and descend by pressing sneak.
The player can sneak normally by pressing sneak when there's no other scaffolding block below.
The sides only have placement collision detection on the bamboo struts.
Scaffolding without blocks under it has a bottom that can be walked on.
Can be placed 6 blocks out from its base of support without falling.

 Lanterns

New light source.
A feature originally planned for the Alpha Halloween Update.
Notch had previously said that lanterns would not be added into Minecraft.
Crafted with 8 iron nuggets surrounding 1 torch.
Generate in snowy villages.
Can be placed either hanging under or on top of a block.
Give slightly more light than a torch.

 Jigsaw blocks

A technical block.
Not obtainable in Survival mode or the Creative inventory.
Can only be obtained using commands.
Is a 'junction' block that allows the player to construct structures out of smaller templates.
Target pool
Refers to a pool of elements the jigsaw block can draw elements from (i.e.: the next template to place).
Attachment type
Refers to the "name" of the jigsaw block. Jigsaw blocks can only connect to other jigsaw blocks with the same "name" (attachment type).
Turn into
The blockstate the jigsaw block turns into once the whole feature is placed.
 Sweet berry bushes

Commonly found in Taiga, Taiga Hills, and Taiga Mountains biomes.
Rarely found in Snowy Taiga, Snowy Taiga Hills and Snowy Taiga Mountains biomes.
Can be planted from sweet berries.
Have 4 stages of growth: 'sapling', 'no berries', 'some berries', and 'full berries'.
Drop 12 berries in younger stage, 23 in full growth stage.
They're harvested with right-click.
Support bone meal usage.
They slow movement of all mobs in all stages of growth, with the exception of foxes
Any mob can stand inside them, but they deal damage similar to a cactus if the mob isn't standing still, as long as the bush has grown past the 'sapling' stage. This applies to all mobs other than foxes.
 Campfires

Generate in taiga villages.
Decorative fireplace without fire spreading.
Does not burn items.
Can be crafted with 3 sticks, 1 coal or charcoal, and 3 wood or logs, stripped or unstripped, of any wood type.
Cooks up to four food items, but 3 times slower than a furnace (30 seconds).
Right-click with a food item to place food on campfire.
Food item pops off when cooked.
Emits a new type of particle, a smoke signal that can be seen from a longer distance than normal particles.
The particles can travel through 12 blocks.
Placing a hay bale below the campfire causes the smoke particles to stay longer and rise higher.
Emits a light level of 15.
Can be put out using a water bucket or a splash water bottle.
Extinguishing a campfire pops off any (uncooked) food item on it.
Can be re-lit with flint and steel or fire charges, but not other fire sources like fire spread.
Repeatedly deals 1HP damage when walked on (except when sneaking).

 Composters

Block that converts crops and plants into bone meal.
Crafted using 3 planks and 4 wooden fences.
Generate in village farms.
Act as the farmer villager's job site.
Creates a single piece of bone meal per 7 levels of composting.
Using certain items on the composter has a chance to add 1 level of composting to the composter, up to 7 levels. After the composter reaches level 7, it turns into level 8 which is the harvestable stage, yielding 1 bone meal when used.
Some composted items are consumed without adding a level. The chance a level is added depends on the quality of the item: larger or crafted items have a higher chance of adding a layer when used (e.g. kelp has a low chance of about 30%, while pumpkin pie has a chance of 100%).

 Note blocks

Added 6 new note block sounds: "Iron Xylophone", "Cow Bell", "Didgeridoo", "Bit", "Banjo", and "Pling".
The sounds can be heard by using iron blocks, soul sand, pumpkins, emerald blocks, hay bales, and glowstone respectively.


=== Items ===
General

Added a new tag for item forms of blocks called BlockStateTag.
Formatted as {BlockStateTag:{state:"value",state2:"value2",stateN:"valueN"}}.
Does not affect item model.
 Banner patterns

Added "flower charge", "creeper charge", "skull charge", and "thing" banner patterns.
Crafted with paper and their associated items.

New "globe" banner pattern.
Obtained by trading with a master-level cartographer villager.
 Crossbows

Crafted from string, iron ingots, sticks, and tripwire hooks.
Can be used as a weapon similar to bows.
Slightly more range, but takes longer to charge without enchantments.
Hold to charge, click to release.
Charged crossbows remain charged in the inventory and can be immediately fired later.
Its arrows deal 6HP to 11HP  5.5 damage.
Can be used to shoot firework rockets by holding the crossbow in one hand and fireworks in the other.
Can be enchanted with new enchantments:
Multishot
Fires three arrows at once in different directions; not compatible with Piercing.
Quick Charge
Increases the reload speed. 3 levels; 0.25 seconds faster each level.
Piercing
Projectiles pierce through mobs. 4 levels; not compatible with Multishot.

 Suspicious stew

Found in shipwreck supply chests.
Can be crafted with a red and brown mushroom, a bowl and any flower.
Cannot be obtained in the creative inventory.
Restores 6 () hunger points and 7.2 saturation points and gives roughly 5 seconds of a status effect.
The effect given upon eating depends on which flower is used, as does the exact duration of the effect.
Oxeye daisy gives Regeneration.
Cornflower gives Jump Boost.
Lily of the valley gives Poison.
Wither rose gives Wither.
Tulip gives Weakness.
Azure bluet gives Blindness.
Allium gives Fire Resistance.
Blue orchid gives Saturation.
Poppy gives Speed.
Dandelion gives Saturation.

 Dyes

Added blue dye, brown dye, black dye and white dye.
Separated bone meal, ink sacs, cocoa beans and lapis lazuli into their own items: they can no longer be used to dye directly.
New dyes craftable from respective ingredients.

 Sweet berries

Fill 2 () hunger points.
Can be planted in the ground and grow into sweet berry bushes.
 Leather horse armor

Added leather horse armor in Java Edition.
This was already an item in Bedrock and Legacy Console editions.
Crafted from 7 leather.
Can be dyed 12,326,391 different colors, similar to leather armor.
Can now be bought from a leatherworker villager.

Spawn eggs

 Panda spawn egg
Spawns pandas.
 Pillager spawn egg
Spawns pillagers.
 Ravager spawn egg
Spawns ravagers.
 Cat spawn egg
Spawns cats.
 Trader llama spawn egg
Spawns trader llamas.
 Wandering trader spawn egg
Spawns wandering traders.
 Fox spawn egg
Spawns foxes.


=== Mobs ===
 Mooshroom

Added brown variant.
Does not spawn naturally.
Obtainable when a normal mooshroom gets struck by lightning, or by using the command /summon mooshroom ~ ~ ~ {Type:brown}.
Change back into a normal mooshroom when it gets struck by lightning again.
Can be fed with a flower and be "milked" for suspicious stew.
The stew would have the same attributes that would be given if the player crafted a suspicious stew with the flower.
Only given the first time the mooshroom has eaten the flower.
 Pandas

Have 20HP  10 health, except for weak pandas, which have 10HP.
Drop 1 bamboo when killed (not affected by Looting).
Neutral mobs.
Spawn in bamboo forests inside jungles.
Seek out bamboo and cake items, and eat them.
Have varying personalities and traits.
They can be normal, aggressive, lazy, weak, worried, or playful (defined by two NBT tags, MainGene and HiddenGene).
They have a rare brown variant (both main and hidden genes have to be brown for a panda to appear brown).
Their emotions can be read on their faces.
Breedable.
Baby pandas sometimes sneeze, making nearby pandas jump: when they sneeze, they have a chance to drop a slimeball.
Variants are inherited by a special panda inheritance system.
Sometimes roll and sit on hind legs.
When hit, nearby villagers display the angry villager particles.
 Pillagers

They are hostile mobs, considered a type of illagers.
Have 24HP  12 health.
Wield crossbows.
Drop their crossbows when killed (affected by Looting).
Raid, or take over, villages, killing villagers.
Cannot equip armor of any type.
Attack villagers, iron golems and wandering traders.
 Ravagers

Have 100HP  50 health.
Have 100% knockback resistance when hit.
Destroy crops and leaves.
Attack villagers, iron golems and wandering traders.
Drop a saddle when killed (100% of the time, not affected by Looting).
Name was chosen by the community (It was named "Illager beast" as a placeholder).
 Ravager Jockeys

Ravagers ridden by illagers that spawn in illager raids.
 Cats

Have 10HP health.
Drop 02 string.
Typically found wandering around villages as strays.
Black cats can spawn in swamp huts.
Have 8 new skins, one being chosen by the community.
Can be tamed using raw cod or raw salmon.
Tamed cats sleep or sit on the owner if they go to sleep in a bed.
When the owner wakes up from the bed, the owner receives a gift, based on a loot table.
The possible gifts are: raw chicken, feather, rabbit hide, rabbit's foot, rotten flesh or phantom membrane.
Scare off phantoms and hiss at them.
Cat collars can now be dyed.
Untamed cats can despawn.
 Trader Llamas

Have 15HP  7.5 to 30HP  15 health.
Spawn in pairs alongside a wandering trader.
Are hostile toward all illagers (except for ravagers) and all zombie variants.
Are the same as normal llamas but have blue and gold decorations.
Have a unique default carpet design. Can't be removed, but can be replaced.
Can be equipped with carpets as normal llamas. Original garb reappears when the carpet is taken off.
Can be tamed normally like any wild llama after the wandering trader is killed or the lead breaks after it walks too far away.
Drop 1 lead when killed (100% of the time, not affected by Looting).
 Wandering Traders

Have 20HP  10 health.
Found in random places around the world. Only one spawns in the world with two trader llamas and within a 48-block radius of a player.
After one in-game day, the game begins to attempt to spawn a wandering trader once per in-game day.
Spawn attempt chance increases with each failed attempt: initially it starts out at 2.5%, then 5%, and then finally caps out at 7.5%.
Provides a random variety of biome-specific item trades, not dependent on biome it spawns in.
Trading times are limited, locked trades are not unlockable by conducting other trades.
Has 6 trades, all unlocked upfront, once used up cannot be reopened.
Despawn after 48000 game ticks (40 minutes).
Drink potions of Invisibility at night to hide from hostile mobs.
Drink milk in the daytime to remove the potion effect.
Have a WanderTarget data tag containing a block position. When set, they pathfind to that position.
 Foxes

Have 10HP health.
Nocturnal mobs which sleep in the morning and are awake at night.
Drop nothing when killed.
Run from the player.
They are about as fast as ocelots.
Can be bred with sweet berries.
The baby born trusts the player and doesn't run away.
Pick up dropped food items with their mouth.
Are attacked by wild wolves (but run faster).
May spawn wandering around villages at night.
A white variant spawns in snowy taiga.


=== World generation ===
General

Added a loading animation when generating a world.
Visualizes render of the spawn chunks.
 Bamboo Forests

New biome variant of jungles.
Contains bamboo shoots, podzol, and pandas.
Pillager outposts

Are structures related to pillagers, separate from illager patrols.
Spawn pillagers. Patrol leaders can spawn at outposts.
Have loot chests at the top, and minor structures around the main tower.
Can be found in any biome a village can be generated in.
Use the jigsaw block for generation.
 Villages

Added snowy tundra villages.
 Zombie Villages

Added snowy tundra zombie villages.


=== Gameplay ===
Advancements

Illager patrols

Spawn in the world as a pack of 5 mobs consisting of pillagers or vindicators.
Spawn in all variations of the plains, taiga, desert and savanna biomes, on top of grass or sand blocks.
An illager banner can be found on the patrol leader's head.
Pillagers attack and pillage villages, trampling crops and killing villagers.
Players who kill the leader have the Bad Omen status effect inflicted upon them.
Raids

Triggered when a player inflicted with the Bad Omen effect enters a village.
Max Bad Omen level for a maximum-strength raid is V.
Kill leaders to increase Bad Omen level.
Each person that brings Bad Omen into the village leads to additional waves of raids.
Higher level of Bad Omen means a higher chance that enemies have enchanted weapons.
Pillagers, vindicators, evokers, witches and ravagers can appear as part of the raids.
Raid progress bar once a village has been entered is displayed like the ender dragon health bar, decreases on pillager kills.
The raid boss bar slowly fills up when a raid is triggered or when a wave is cleared.
Shows remaining mobs near the end.
Mobs appear in waves, which follow a set pattern of waves based on difficulty (Easy is three waves, Normal is five waves, and Hard is seven waves).
A bonus wave is added for every additional level of Bad Omen brought into a village, equivalent to the final base wave.
A wave can only begin, if all mobs in the previous wave have been killed.
Include witches and evokers on later waves.
When players defeat all waves, they get a Hero of the village effect as a reward, and the villagers gift the player random items according to their profession.
Raids end with a "Victory" or "Defeat" message.
Resource packs

Added "Programmer Art  The classic look of Minecraft" to the resource pack menu.
Status effects

 Bad Omen
Acquired by killing an illager patrol leader (an illager wearing a banner on its head).
 Hero of the Village
Occurs when a raid is defeated.
The level of the effect is equivalent to the level of the Bad Omen effect.
Lasts for approximately two in-game days, in which trades from villagers are heavily discounted.


=== Command format ===
Tags

Nine new block tags:
bamboo_plantable_on, beds, dirt_like, dragon_immune, signs, small_flowers, standing_signs, wall_signs, and wither_immune.
Six new item tags: arrows, beds, music_discs, signs, small_flowers, and walls.
/loot

General syntax: /loot <target>.
Sources: fish for fishing, loot for loot chests, kill for entity drops, and mine for block drops.
Sources:
fish <loot table id> <fishing location> [tool <item>|mainhand|offhand]
Uses fishing context.
loot <loot table id>
Uses loot chest context (can be also used for advancement awards and cat gifts).
kill <entity selector>
Simulates entity drops.
mine <mining location> [tool <item>|mainhand|offhand]
Simulates block drops.
Targets:
spawn <position>
Drops in world.
replace
Works similar to /replaceitem. If count is missing, command tries to place all returned items. If count is higher than number of items, remaining slots are cleared.
entity <entity selector> <start slot> [<count>]
Replaces a range of slots.
block <position> <start slot> [<count>]
Replaces range of slots.
give <player selector>
Inserts items into player's inventory (similar to /give).
insert <position>
Inserts items into container (similar to  Shift+left-click).
/schedule

Schedules functions or tags to run in gametime ticks.
Any function/tag can be scheduled only once.
Calling for an already scheduled function/tag replaces the oldest record.
/teammsg

General syntax: /teammsg <message> Sends <message> to all players on the team of the player who runs the command. Available to all players on a team.
Alias: /tm <message>.
Clicking the team name opens a new /teammsg command.


=== General ===
Client.jar

Added a version.json file to the root of client.jar, which lists information such as data version, protocol version, data pack version, parent version, build date and time, and whether it is a stable build.
Death messages

Added new death messages for when a player dies from moving through a sweet berry bush.
<player> was poked to death by a sweet berry bush.
<player> was poked to death by a sweet berry bush whilst trying to escape <entity>.
Font

Added more characters to the default font.
Corrected several glyphs.
Title screen

Added "Accessibility Options" button to the title screen.
Particles

Three new particle types: campfire_cosy_smoke, campfire_signal_smoke, and sneeze.
Recipes

"campfire" type recipes for adding custom campfire recipes.
Splashes

Added the following splash texts:
"<Playername> IS YOU"
"Rainbow turtle?"
"Something funny!"
"I need more context."
"Ahhhhhh!"
"Don't worry, be happy!"
"Water bottle!"
"What's the question?"
"Plant a tree!"
"Go to the dentist!"
"What do you expect?"
"Look mum, I'm in a splash!"
"It came from space."
Startup screen

Added a loading bar to the startup screen.
Once loading is complete, the startup screen now fades into the main menu.
Statistics

Several new statistics:
"Barrels opened"
"Bells Rung"
"Interactions with Blast Furnace"
"Interactions with Campfire"
"Interactions with Cartography Table"
"Interactions with Lectern"
"Interactions with Loom"
"Raids Triggered"
"Raids Won"
"Interactions with Smoker"
"Interactions with Stonecutter"


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Beds

Now have an accurate hitbox.
Brewing stands

Now generate in village temples.
Act as the cleric villager's job site.
Carpets

Can now be made by surrounding a non-white dye with white carpet.
Cauldrons

Now generate in village tanneries.
Act as the leatherworker villager's job site.
Chorus flowers

Now break and drop themselves when shot by arrows and tridents.
Crops and nether wart

Added placement and breaking sounds.
Cut sandstone and cut red sandstone

Now available through stonecutters.
Dispensers

Shears can now be dispensed and shear sheep.
Glass

Is now more like most solid blocks.
Redstone dust can now be placed on top of glass.
Grass path, mycelium, and podzol

Now have random orientation when placed to correspond with grass blocks.
Leaves

Now drop 02 sticks.
Nether brick fences

Recipe changed to include nether brick items rather than just nether bricks blocks.
Now require 4 nether brick blocks and 2 nether brick items.
The old recipe is now used to craft nether brick walls.
Redstone dust 

Depowering performance increase.
Signs

Renamed "Sign" to "Oak Sign".
Crafting a sign now requires the same wood type instead of a random assortment.
Right-clicking on signs with dyes now changes the text color.
Rewrote editing to be more intuitive:
Movable cursor for free text editing.
Selection support.
Copy and paste support.
Smooth quartz, smooth sandstone, smooth red sandstone and smooth stone

Obtainable from smelting blocks of quartz, sandstone, red sandstone and stone, respectively.
Smooth stone slab

Stone slabs have been renamed to smooth stone slabs.
Now crafted with smooth stone instead of stone.
Stained glass panes

Now can be made by surrounding a dye with non-stained glass panes.
TNT

Explosions now have a 100% drop rate.
Transparent blocks

Numerous things pertaining to transparent blocks have been changed; see /Transparent block changes for more info.
Vines

Can now be climbed without supporting blocks.


=== Items ===
Beetroot soup

Recipe changed to be shapeless.
Book and quill

Rewrote editing to be more intuitive:
Movable cursor for free text editing.
Selection support.
Copy and paste support.
Keyboard and mouse handling.
Improved page filling and line-wrapping.
Double-click to highlight a word, triple-click to highlight a page.
Can now go up to 100 pages.
Dead bush

Can now be used as fuel in a furnace.
Dye

Unified all dye names.
Rose red, dandelion yellow, and cactus green have been renamed to red, yellow and green dye, respectively.
Lapis lazuli, cocoa beans, bone meal and ink sac can no longer be used as dyes.
Horse armor

Now remains visible when the horse wearing it has the Invisibility effect.
No longer flashes red when the horse takes damage.
Now apply the Thorns, Feather Falling, Depth Strider, Respiration, Protection, Fire Protection, Projectile Protection and Blast Protection enchantments to horses that are wearing it.
Rabbit stew

Recipe changed to be shapeless.
Totem of undying

Texture and model of the totem when used now has the same CustomModelData value as the item had, making resource packs who use that tag have the correct model when activated.


=== Mobs ===
General

Mobs can now sleep in beds using commands.[verify for Java Edition]
Updated hitboxes and eye positions of many entities.[more information needed]
Player height while sneaking is now 1.5m.
Mobs that would spawn and then despawn from being too far away from the player the next tick no longer spawn.
Cats and ocelots

Cats and ocelots are split into two separate mobs.
Cats are now able to spawn as strays in villages, which can be tamed.
Ocelots can no longer be tamed; instead, they trust the player, if fed raw salmon or raw cod.
Creepers

Can now drop music discs from strays, in addition to skeletons again.
Dolphins

Can no longer have armor equipped onto them via a dispenser.
Fish

Performance improvements.
Illusioners, players and the wither

Now have loot tables.
Iron golem

Tweaked spawning in villages
Spawn when enough villagers meet.
Also only spawn if villagers in a village have worked and slept before a meeting.
Villagers that are recently hurt by zombies have a higher chance of spawning an iron golem.
Mooshrooms

Switch types (red or brown) when struck by lightning.
Added 3 new sounds, for converting, eating and milking.
Mooshrooms now have a Type data field.
Parrots

Can now imitate pillagers, ravagers and pandas.
Phantoms

Are now afraid of cats.

Villagers

Villagers and zombie villagers now have seven skin types which correspond to the following biomes:
Plains
Desert
Savanna
Taiga
Snowy tundra/snowy taiga
Jungle
Swamp
Added new mason profession.
Revamped trading UI.
Available trades are listed in a left sidebar, similar to Bedrock Edition.
When players have the required materials, clicking on one of the trades puts the items into the slots automatically.
Villager AI has been rewritten, they can now sleep, and around midday, they gather at the meeting point of the village.
All villagers spawn as nitwits (green robes) or unemployed (brown robes) when spawned by spawn egg or commands.
Unemployed villagers have no profession initially, but change profession based on a "job site" block near them.
Now have levels based on XP gained from trading.
Now have badges marking their level.
When hit by the player, villagers raise the price of their trades.
Now show players their trades in their hands if the player is holding certain items, which they are trading for.
Cured zombie villagers retain their trades when they are converted back into regular villagers.
Villager children now play in villages.
Villagers no longer look at players in Spectator mode.
Vindicators

Now break down doors.
Wolves

Tamed wolf kills now count as a player kill.
E.g. a zombie can rarely drop a potato on death alongside its normal drops, or an illager captain inflict Bad Omen on death when killed by the wolf.
Before, tamed wolves only had mobs drop XP and their common drops upon death.


=== Non-mob entities ===
Armor stands

Now has a loot table.
Thrown Egg, Thrown Ender Pearl, Thrown Bottle o' Enchanting, Eye of Ender, Ghast fireball, Blaze fireball (fire charge), and Snowball. 

Now have an optional Item tag that can specify a different item stack to render.
Minecart with TNT

Explosions now have a 100% drop rate.
Paintings

Now broken up into individual textures.
Animations are supported.


=== World generation ===
Villages

Now naturally generate with one iron golem spawned.
Village detection is now based on beds, job sites and meeting points instead of doors.
Plains, Desert, Savanna and Taiga villages have a new architecture.
Village houses now have drastically different structures that depend on the biome and there are many more types.
Use jigsaw blocks for generation.
Added new structure and loot table files for the new village houses.
Swamp huts

Now generate with a black cat.
Zombie villages

Updated plains, desert, savanna, and taiga zombie villages.
The Nether

Soul sand and gravel now generate below Y-level 34 at lava sea level, instead of between Y-level 60 and 65.
A possible reason for this tweak was to accommodate for the increased availability of soul sand in the upcoming Nether Update, as the idea of soul sand valley biome had likely been envisioned by the developers while 1.14 was still in development.


=== Command format ===
Advancements

Entity type predicates now accept tags (#baz).
The damage source predicate now has option: is_lightning.
The entity predicate now accepts a flag field.
Available tests: is_on_fire, is_sneaking, is_sprinting, is_swimming, is_baby.
Entity predicate now accepts equipment field.
This predicate can contain up to six fields: head, chest, legs, feet, mainhand, offhand.
If this predicate is non-null, test fails for entities that have no equipment (i.e. not mobs, players or armor stands).
Commands/NBT data

Extended NBT path syntax.
New chat component for displaying values from NBT.
Block variant {"nbt": <path>, "block":<x> <y> <z>}.
The "block" entry is exactly like it's used in commands, for example "15 16 17" means x=15, y=16 and z=17.
Entity variant {"nbt": <path>, "entity":<selector>}.
If interpret is present and true, contents of selected tags are interpreted as chat components.
Item lore tag now uses chat component syntax.
Time arguments in /time set, /time add and /schedule function can now have units.
t for ticks, s for seconds, d for days.
Fractions are allowed as long as the result is integer (for example 0.5d).
Conditions

entity_properties
Now uses same predicate syntax as advancements (like player_killed_entity).
Parameters are now described in predicate field. If this field is an empty object, any entity is accepted (but still has to be present).
Creative menu

Creative menu search box now accepts tags (starting with #).
Tooltip in creative search menu now lists item's tags.
Loot tables

Block drops are now controlled by loot tables.
Tables and pools accept functions.
New loot table entry types: dynamic, tag, alternatives, sequence, group.
New loot table functions: apply_bonus, explosion_decay, copy_name, limit_count, set_contents, set_loot_table.
New loot table conditions: entity_present, survives_explosion, block_state_property, table_bonus, match_tool, tool_enchantment, and two special modifiers: inverted, and alternative.
Integer values can now specify random number generator.
constant, uniform (default), binomial.
Optional type used to validate function usage.
empty, chest, fishing, entity, advancement_reward, block.
Using function that references data not available in given context causes warning.
Entity parameters in predicates: direct_killer - allows access to projectiles etc.
Renamed entity parameter in predicates from direct_killer_entity to direct_killer.
New conditions
alternative: joins conditions from parameter terms with "or".
block_state_property: check properties of block state, parameters:
block: id of block; test fails if broken block doesn't match.
properties: map of property:value pairs.
damage_source_properties: checks damage source.
Same syntax as entity_properties, but uses damage source predicate (see player_hurt_entity advancement trigger).
inverted: inverts condition from parameter term.
location_check: applies advancement location predicate, parameters:
predicate: predicate applied to location, uses same structure as advancements.
match_tool: checks tool (only available for block breaking and fishing). Parameters are:
predicate: predicate applied to item, uses same structure as advancements.
survives_explosion: returns true with 1/explosion radius probability.
table_bonus: passes with probability picked from table, indexed by enchantment level. Parameters are:
enchantment: id of enchantment.
chances: list of probabilities for enchantment level, indexed from 0.
weather_check with these parameters:
raining - optional boolean.
thundering - optional boolean.
New entries
alternatives: Tests conditions of child entries and executes first that can run, has no weight or quality, but may have conditions.
Dynamic
Gets block specific drops.
minecraft:contents: block entity contents.
minecraft:self: for banners and player skulls.
group: Executes child entries when own conditions pass, has no weight or quality.
sequence: Executes child entries until first one that can't run due to conditions, has no weight or quality, but may have conditions.
tag: adds contents of item tag;fields:
name: id of tag.
expand: if false, entry returns all contents of tag, otherwise entry behaves as multiple item entries (all with same weight and quality).
New functions
apply_bonus: applies one of predefined bonus formulas.
Common fields:
enchantment: id for enchantment level used for calculation.
formula: type of used bonus formula.
parameters: values required for formula (depend on type).
Formulas based on existing fortune bonuses.
Formula binomial_with_bonus_count, parameters are:
probability : float
extraRounds : int
Adds random value using binomial distribution with n <- level + extraRounds and p <- probability.
Formula uniform_bonus_count, parameters are:
bonusMultiplier
Adds random value using uniform distribution from 0 to bonusMultiplier *level.
Formula ore_drops, no parameters.
Applies formula count *(max(0, random(0..1) - 1) + 1).
copy_name
Copies display name from block entity to item (see enchanting table behavior).
copy_nbt.
Copies NBT from source to item tags.
Parameters:
source: can be this, killer, killer_player, or block_entity.
ops
List of copy operations:
source: source path (same as /data).
target: target path.
op: replace, append (for lists), or merge; for compound tags.
explosion_decay
Applies flat chance (equal to 1/explosion radius) for every item to be destroyed (items in stack are processed separately).
limit_count, parameters are:
limit
min - optional
max - optional
Limits count of every item stack to range.
set_contents, parameters:
entries list of entries (same as in pool).
Populates BlockEntityTag.Items with items from entries.
set_loot_table, parameters are:
name: id of loot table.
seed: seed; if omitted or 0, LootTableSeed is not set.
Sets BlockEntityTag.LootTable, and BlockEntityTag.LootTableSeed tags.
set_name
Added new parameter entity (same values as entity_present condition). If present, the name is resolved with that entity (which allows using selector and score components).
fill_player_head
Copies player profile info to player head item.
Parameters:
entity  source of profile (same values as entity_present condition, does nothing if it's not player).
set_lore
Adds or replaces lore lines.
Parameters:
lore  list of lines (in chat component format) to be added.
replace  if true, previous lore is erased.
entity  if present, name is resolved with selected entity (same values as entity_present condition).
JSON text components

Block variant {"nbt": path, "block": "coordinates"}, where coordinates field uses same format as /setblock.
Entity variant {"nbt": path, "entity": selector}, where selector field uses same format as /kill.
Additionally, if field interpret is present and set to true, contents of selected tags are interpreted as chat components.
Works same as selector components:
If there are no elements, returns empty string.
If there are multiple elements, merges them with ,.
NBT paths

Can now return multiple values.
When used as target, modification is applied to every element.
When setting location and no elements are found, new matching element is created:
Adds [{k1:v1,k2:v2}] to match objects in list that have matching fields.
Adds {k1:v1,k2:v2}  to match objects.
Selects 0 or 1 element, mostly as safeguard against mismatched entries.
Allows negative indices as [index] to index elements in reverse from end.
Add [] to select all elements from list.
Villager NBT
Removed the following NBT information:

Added the following NBT information:

World generator registries

Most of the biome related features now have a registry and their configuration can be serialized.
Added a feature registry.
Added a registry for decorators.
Added a registry for carvers.
Added a registry for surface builders.
Zombie villager NBT
Removed the following NBT information:

Added the following NBT information:

Other

/execute (if|unless) data <block or entity> <path>
Returns count of matched elements when used as command.
Continues on non-zero(if) or zero(unless) count when used as part of command.
Item frame contents can now be modified with /replaceitem.
/data modify <block or entity> <path> <operation>.
Applies an operation to selected fields.
Operations
Are set on all types.
Are inserted before index, insert after index, prepend, append on lists.
Merge on objects.
Sources
from <block or entity> <path> to copy a value from an existing tag.
value <nbt>.
Added entity type tags.
Work like other tags, stored in tags\entity_types\.
The type field in @ selectors now accepts entity type tags.
/locate
Can locate pillager outposts.
Changing item models based on item NBT.
New item model property: custom_model_data, backed directly by CustomModelData integer NBT field.
/forceload query can now be executed by command blocks and functions.
'text' can once again be used for string quotes in commands in addition to the double quote "text".
Inside single-quoted strings, double quotes are handled as a normal character and requires no escaping (and vice-versa), making it easier to input text components in NBT.


=== Gameplay ===
Crafting

Recipes for combining damaged items have been removed; these are now done using the grindstone.
Enchanting

The Protection, Blast Protection, Fire Protection, and Projectile Protection enchantments are no longer mutually exclusive.
Lighting system

Has been rewritten.
Moved light storage from chunks to a separate structure.
Moved light calculation from all over the code to a self-contained place.
Moved light computation off the main thread on the server.
Sneaking

Now reduces the player's height to 1.5 blocks, allowing them to walk through 1.5-block-tall gaps.
Status effects

Each individual status effect icon texture is now found in a separate texture file.
Luck and Bad Luck have had their icons updated.
Improved the Invisibility status effect to allow it to correctly work in many cases where it didn't.
Guardians no longer see invisible players.
Zombies and illagers no longer see invisible villagers and wandering traders.

Trading

Added many new villager trades, for each villager profession.
Villager trading prices now also depend on demand and player's popularity in the village.
Villagers now resupply their trades up to two times a day, if they get to work at a job site block.
Updated the villager trading UI.
Villagers now level up from gaining experience by trading with a player.
Villagers have five profession levels, showing how many trade tiers they've unlocked by a badge of a varying material on their suit: novice, apprentice, journeyman, expert, and master.
The first trade tier is represented by a stone badge, the next iron, then gold, emerald and finally diamond.
Some of the professions have less than five trade tiers in total.
If a villager summoned by a command has a higher level than its natural highest level, its badge can still be seen, however, the player wouldn't be able to interact with it.
A little experience bar is shown at the top of the trading UI. Once the bar fills up from trading, exiting the UI and waiting briefly levels up the villager and show pink particles similar to those shown when refreshing trades in previous versions of the game.
Experience that exceeds the level up amount seems to roll over between level ups.
The experience bar disappears once the villager becomes master level.
Every time a new level is reached, 1-2 new trade offers appear.
The villager's experience gained per trade is based on the trade itself, the level the trade was unlocked at (novice, apprentice, etc.), and the current level of the villager.
Lower level trades give less experience toward a level up once the villager is a higher level.


=== General ===
Advancements

"A Balanced Diet"
Now also requires suspicious stew and sweet berries.
"How Did We Get Here?"
Now requires Saturation and Blindness as these effects can be obtained through suspicious stew.
"Monsters Hunted"
No longer requires polar bears.
"Monster Hunter"
Polar bears no longer serve as a valid mob to trigger this advancement.
"The Parrots and the Bats" and "Best Friends Forever"
Requirements have been changed from ocelots to cats.
"Two by Two"
Requirements have been changed from ocelots to cats.
Now requires pandas and foxes.
Collision code

Improved collision code.
Creative inventory

Wall blocks are now found in the "Decoration Blocks" tab.
Credits

Updated the credits list.
Updated the game credits to include more Mojang staff.
Debug screen

Pressing Alt + F3 shows a server-side ticks-per-second chart in singleplayer.
Added min/avg/max tick times to Alt + F3 charts to help find stutters.
Dedicated servers

server.properties
difficulty and gamemode settings now accept string names; integer values are still allowed as legacy option.
Server now exits faster if eula.txt is not set.
Command line
Added new option --help.
Added new command line option initSettings.
Initializes eula.txt, and server.properties with defaults, then exits.
Language

Now changes the language after clicking on the 'Done' button to avoid having to wait after accidentally clicking an unwanted language option.
Before, language changed immediately after choosing a different language option.
Loading screen

Now shows a progress bar.
LWJGL

Updated to 3.2.1.
Title screen

Updated panorama background to show the new village structures.
The menu panorama uses seed 2802867088795589976 at coordinates X = 240.57, Y = 78.12, Z = 147.38
Menus

Menu buttons, edit boxes, and other UI elements can now be cycled through by pressing  Tab.
 Shift +  Tab goes backwards.
Lists allow  Up/ Down arrow keys to navigate through them.
Narrator

Now found in settings.
Reads hovered over buttons out loud.
Optimizations

Inside the optimize world screen there is now an option to remove cached world data (e.g., height maps and light), so that it is re-computed when the world is next loaded.
Optimized nether portals.
They now keep the other side loaded for 15 seconds after an entity goes through.
Options

Added "Accessibility Settings".
All accessibility features are now easily toggled within the settings.
"Auto-Jump" is now also listed in accessibility settings.
Added a new option that allows turning up transparent backgrounds.
Transparency setting is now labeled "Chat Text Opacity" instead of "Chat Opacity".
Removed "Snooper Settings". However, the snooper setting is still configurable in options.txt (snooperEnabled).
"Sensitivity", "Invert Mouse" and "Touchscreen Mode" have been moved to a subsection "Mouse Settings".
Added new options: "Scroll Sensitivity" and "Discrete Scrolling", also in "Mouse Settings"; these fix MC-123773.
Scroll sensitivity is a multiplier for scroll magnitude; the setting was first added in 18w21a but was only accessible by editing mouseWheelSensitivity in options.txt.
Discrete scrolling tells the game to ignore scroll magnitude values given by the operating system and instead to act as if the operating system supplied 1 or +1.  These are influenced by the sensitivity afterwards, if needed.
If unwanted scrolling occurs, enable discrete scrolling and set the sensitivity to 1.
Particles

Are now broken up into individual textures files per frame rather than being in particles.png.
Do not use .mcmeta files for their animation  those are still hard-coded.
Sprites for particles can now be configured in resource packs.
Pause screen

Added "Give Feedback" and "Report Bugs" buttons.
Player positioning

The player's position now adjusts to the gap they are within:
1.5 blocks: sneaking posture
<1 block: swimming animation
Being forced into an area under two blocks high causes the player to adopt the appropriate posture.
Sounds

Rewrote sound system.
Reduced stuttering when playing sounds.
Global sounds now always play at full volume. Previously they were just played at the player's position, which made it possible for them to become quieter or stop being audible if the player moved while it was playing.
Splash

Removed "Hobo humping slobo babe!"
Removed splashes referencing Notch:
"Made by Notch!"
"The Work of Notch!"
"110813!"
Technical

Added support for directional opacity of blocks (used by slabs, stairs, snow, farmland, grass paths, extended pistons (base and head), End portal frames, and enchanting tables).
Textures

All textures have been updated.
New consistent set of block, item, mob, effect, GUI, etc. textures made by Jasper Boerstra.
Old textures are offered as a resource pack called "Programmer Art".
Video settings

'Use VBOs' toggle removed. Now always enabled.
World creation

New progress message: "Upgrading structure data".
Worlds with names already being used now prepend to the folder name a number in parentheses instead of adding hyphens (e.g., "New World (3)" instead of "New World---").


== Fixes ==
240 issues fixed
From released versions before 1.12

MC-92  Slab and stairs lighting incorrect.
MC-112  Blocks/entities above beds push players out of bed.
MC-749  Villager can have all trades disabled.
MC-926  When sleeping on a bed, particle effects are slanted or don't appear at all.
MC-1237  Anvil GUI truncating long item names and showing garbage at the end.
MC-1578  Cannot move backwards in books/signs while writing / cannot copy anything from the book.
MC-1692  Excessive lag on lamp de/activation across chunk borders.
MC-2376  Wolves shaking fur dry while dying.
MC-2518  No -breaking sound or- particle effect for some tools and all armor.
MC-3329  Naturally generated light sources (fire, glowstone, torches etc.) sometimes do not emit light.
MC-3961  Water, cobwebs, magma, leaves, and other blocks save sunlight.
MC-4686  Client movement when teleported.
MC-4732  Tools and weapons lose durability when attacking players that are in Creative.
MC-9188  Fires can leave ghost lighting behind.
MC-10369  Server side particle spawning does not create particles for client.
MC-10901  Various mobs can see invisible players.
MC-11532  Empty map is consumed upon right-clicking in creative.
MC-11571  Huge lighting updates lag the game.
MC-13497  Wither skeletons and zombie pigmen won't go through lava to get to enemies, even though they can't burn.
MC-15990  The base of farms in desert villages are composed of dirt.
MC-30845  Camera is glitching through tall grass, seagrass, and kelp in F5 (third-person) mode.
MC-36952  Minecart sound randomly stops.
MC-40380  Replacing heads still drop as an item.
MC-41113  /clear turns items held by mouse into ghost items.
MC-44471  Difficulty lock appears to be unlocked if switching dimensions.
MC-45489  Villager spawn is unbalanced/broken.
MC-46094  Using fill/clone which replaces mob spawner and keeps its fire particle.
MC-46445  Spectator mode particles and sounds computed from where the player has been before.
MC-46667  Light Level in F3 not correct on slabs, stairs, farmland, and grass path.
MC-50367  Bad hitboxes and eye positions.
MC-56562  Player can walk through worldborder when set to less than 3 if already outside of the border.
MC-60772  Draw order of translucent blocks based on head position (not POV).
MC-60960  Unable to sleep through to morning due to dead player.
MC-63070  Chunks do not render behind the player in F5. Perhaps culling should calculate from camera POV instead of presuming head position.
MC-64581  Game freezes a couple of seconds when changing mipmap level parameter.
MC-65086  Double clicking an item in creative mode survival inventory tab no longer stacks similar items.
MC-66206  Beacon color change delayed if the beam passes through water, cobweb, and leaves.
MC-68563  Barrier particles display random textures when switching resource packs.
MC-68687  Entering or breaking Minecart briefly plays riding sound.
MC-69613  Summoning rotated armor stand riding rotated horse causes armor stand to be incorrectly rotated.
MC-70057  Can't place redstone on sea lanterns.
MC-71256  Endermen immediately start moving after being looked at instead of freezing and staring back at the player.
MC-73604  Spectator can interact with beacon.
MC-73724  Iron golems no longer actively seek out hostile mobs.
MC-76278  Lighting not updating until walked up or block update.
MC-76416  Player can interact with dying mobs.
MC-79320  Invisible villagers and wandering traders can be seen by zombies.
MC-79925  null hitResult when no entity or block is in focus while looking through blocks without the ray trace intersecting the blocks themselves.
MC-80658  Note blocks: Gray color for certain music notes.
MC-80966  Light calculation of ChunkSelection faulty implemented resulting in client bugs (empty chunks don't show light/render dark).
MC-81202  Fishing line disappears when fishing hook is not in view.
MC-83277  Entities render black when enclosed in slabs (or other blocks).
MC-85128  Fireball doesn't use model.
MC-85177  Guardian beam is not rendered if targeted entity is the first entity in the world.
MC-87942  Ender crystal beam does not appear when the ender dragon is out of view.
MC-88097  Snow blocks receive (useless) random updates and can get destroyed when there is a light glitch.
MC-88176  Entities standing on Y=63 will become invisible when looking up.
MC-88326  Other players' items are dropped when closing beacon interface while they are choosing effect.
MC-89000  Falling Sand doesn't get killed if falling on edge of block.
MC-90523  falling_block entity floating on fences/walls.
MC-90594  Player can stop sneaking/gliding without space to stand up.
MC-91136  Lighting update is delayed at chunk borders.
MC-91404  Falling sand does not land on shulker.
MC-91858  Ender crystal beams don't show when ender crystal is out of view.
MC-92759  Luck and bad luck effects don't work with double chests.
MC-93132  Missing lighting updates for lazy chunks.
MC-93483  Spectators opening Loot Table double chests will generate the items inside.
MC-94420  Falling block dropped on any boat will float above this boat in a 3x3 grid and never land.
MC-95044  Graphics card and sign colors.
MC-96932  Minecart and boat shadows are too small.
MC-96946  Endermen keep following player in creative mode.
MC-99255  Mobs killed by [wolves] give wrong loot tables.
MC-99863  Line breaks differently in signed book.
MC-101127  The wither effect harms the "Wither" skeleton.
MC-101186  Graphical errors in main menu in slim windows.
MC-101233  Burned out redstone torch map causes memory leak.
MC-101567  Point of vision can become unsynced with player model (elytra).
MC-102055  Wither skeleton waving arms in the water when targeting a player.
MC-102162  Some light-emitting blocks (magma, lit furnace, lit redstone ore) 'save' block light.
MC-102514  Moon has orange light.
MC-102893  Villages in other biomes don't have their respective saplings.
MC-103192  Combining tools or armor adds to crafting stat.
MC-105099  Slimes & Magma Cubes can still attack players when they are in their death animation.
MC-106133  Stray/wither skeleton with tipped arrow in offhand no longer shoots tipped arrows.
MC-106430  "Glowing" shader not reloaded on resource pack reload.
MC-109268  Loading world with cast fishing rod makes fishing rod cast sound.
MC-109344  There is no wither loot table.
MC-109954  Saddled pigs/horses still move when in their death animation.
MC-110066  Bat hitbox jitter when it is upside down under the block.
MC-110510  Evokers can see through walls.
MC-111480  Firework boosting doesn't work in the first world loaded after a game start/if player has entity id 0.
MC-112579  Creepers don't drop disc when killed by stray or wither skeleton holding a bow.
MC-113788  Obsidian platform in End is not repaired when dead player teleports.
MC-113869  Shulker boxes restore custom name after deleting it and placing them down.
MC-113897  Wooden planks paths for villages are used for lava as well.
MC-113898  Water below lily pads is replaced by wooden planks village paths.
MC-114559  Lightning converts dying mobs.
MC-114560  Dying zombie villager converts to alive villager.
MC-114561  Baby mobs can grow while dying.
MC-114760  Client may display incorrect villager career name.
MC-114779  Stairs render faces that cannot be seen normally.
MC-116355  Villagers don't run away from illusioners.
MC-116448  Illusioner is missing its loot table.
MC-116969  Mobs look at invisible mobs/players.
MC-117030  Forest ground too dark when pillaring up.
MC-117067  Trees/leaves too bright under big platform.
MC-117094  Bright spots below /fill-ed platform.
MC-117619  The player's hitbox does not match his model when he sneaks.
MC-117706  Sky turns already dark when player is below y = 1.
MC-117711  "Snowy Kingdom" Superflat preset arguments include villages despite them being unable to generate in ice plains.
MC-118238  Torches can be placed on top of glass, but not on side.
MC-118323  magenta_dye_from_lapis_ink_bonemeal recipe and its advancement are misnamed.
MC-118764  Items inside the villager trading GUI drop when the interface is closed.
MC-118971  Being only slightly inside solid block in Spectator mode makes sky go dark.
MC-119136  Some mobs skin repetitively change.
MC-119808  Minecarts drop their items offset in the positive direction.
MC-119932  Light-emitting solid blocks (lit furnaces, magma blocks, glowstone, lit redstone ore) let light (sunlight, block light) through.
MC-120687  Desert churches have sandstone stairs inside of a cobblestone building.
MC-121105  Beacon beam color update is slow when too far away from the beacon block.
MC-121148  Polar bears are required in "Monster Hunter" advancement, but are not completely hostile.
MC-121282  Server icons erased on loading multiplayer menu.
MC-121759  Item particle command doesn't work with shields.
MC-122327  No longer able to place buttons or levers on pistons.
MC-122846  Crosshair displayed skewed on GUI scale 3.
MC-122885  Attempting to backup a world with a path longer than 260 results in a crash.
MC-123025  Destroying moving blocks with TNT always drops the block.
MC-123263  Light update or block update FPS issue.
MC-123312  Pressure plate tables in villages are oak instead of village type specific wood.
MC-123729  Villagers not remembering correct profession.
MC-123772  The lore strings cannot be formatted in JSON.
MC-123773  Scrolling the hotbar on mac behaves weirdly starting in 18w01a.
MC-124029  The game removing unknown recipes is not logged as an error.
MC-124241  Score, and Selector text components finalize with the result of the first instance the command runs as.
MC-124395  Beacon block entity contains code for custom names, despite not storing it to NBT and the beacon GUI not having one.
MC-124456  Vindicators, evokers and illusioners do not render items on head.
MC-124934  Superflat villages don't have grass paths.
MC-125004  Lakes generate through village.
MC-125051  Incorrect structure names in advancements cause java.lang.NullPointerException.
MC-125774  The player keeps its 1 block height of swimming animation when going out of water.
MC-126010  Ocean ravines can intersect normal ravines.
MC-126184  Luck doesn't work with shulker boxes.
MC-126302  Game freezes if splash text 231 is the only one in splashes.txt.
MC-127016  Waterlogged wooden slabs/stairs/fences/scaffoldings can still catch fire.
MC-127238  Beacon colors don't update as frequently anymore.
MC-127296  Drowned throw tridents backwards.
MC-127963  Having vex as a passenger to a mob causes erratic AI behavior.
MC-128994  Gliding in a block produces its step sound.
MC-129089  Chunk borders move with spectated mob.
MC-129090  Bottom faces of blocks at the bottom of the world always renders as if it's fully lit.
MC-129205  Cannot target blocks underneath of cauldrons through the cauldron.
MC-129433  /locate Village doesn't work in superflat worlds.
MC-129481  Water backface culling in F5 mode.
MC-129750  Non [a-z0-9_.-] character in one advancement causes ALL advancements to not load with no error message.
MC-129855  Turtle egg block model has stretched texture.
MC-129863  "Crawling" underneath glass/grass paths/other transparent blocks causes bugs.
MC-129926  Light glitch with slabs.
MC-130125  Dolphins are sometimes rendered offset when jumping on land.
MC-130154  Checkerboard buffet worlds incorrectly generate ocean and rivers.
MC-130564  Server resource packs can brick the client for periods of time.
MC-130572  Using an ender pearl to teleport into a one-block-high area with water in it will cause the player's head to become stuck in a block.
MC-130847  Potion effect level not showing past level IV - affects turtle master.
MC-131116  Re-entering water while in a crawling state can cause the player to visually stand up.
MC-131320  Lighting errors in newly generated world.
MC-131356  The firework light flash is missing.
MC-131368  Snow golems attack invisible mobs.
MC-131417  Saving structure with name containing two consecutive dots logs error "java.io.IOException: Invalid relative path to resource".
MC-131553  Iron horse armor is misaligned at the head.
MC-131749  Strongholds don't generate in superflat with the 'stronghold' generator option.
MC-131845  Scroll bar resets when selecting a language.
MC-132283  Ponds are generated too dark.
MC-132351  Plants don't grow when there is block above them.
MC-132478  Entering a bed while in 3rd-person view will show the point of view as 1st-person while in the bed.
MC-132482  The player's swimming state is not saved, which can cause suffocation and potential loss of items.
MC-132529  Villager egg with custom career make him does strange trades.
MC-132701  Lighting is broken on world load.
MC-132816  Using lava bucket on kelp and seagrass empties bucket without placing lava.
MC-132925  Using .png and .ttf fonts together slows client down significantly.
MC-133013  The parrot does not imitate the sound of the guardian.
MC-133042  Block of grass that grew from dirt under snow is not snowy.
MC-133130  Uncaught exception handler doesn't log the stacktrace.
MC-133188  Cannot climb waterlogged ladders or scaffolds.
MC-133205  Missing block with superflat preset "The Void".
MC-133398  Level of moisture of farmland in village is 0.
MC-133844  Visual glitch with 1 block tall area (Character standing in blocks).
MC-134063  Wood blocks have the wrong color on maps.
MC-134124  Cyrillic  and  characters are not displayed properly.
MC-134282  Game crash with "Unexpected error" if display is turned off then on again.
MC-134625  Tesselating liquid in world - NullPointerException.
MC-134755  All short mobs drown just below the surface of water.
MC-135157  Crops cannot be planted by aiming at the side of a block.
MC-135247  Phantom attack damage attribute cannot be modified using the /data command.
MC-135376  being in water at y 0 makes screen too dark.
MC-135449  Copy & paste into book and quill displays CR on each line.
MC-135453  Crash while rendering block entity.
MC-135501  Invalid block/item tag inside another tag file causes the game to crash.
MC-135759  Blacksmith houses in desert villages are partially made out of sandstone.
MC-135764  Incorrect plural in stat.minecraft.clean_shulker_box's translation value.
MC-135920  Chucks missing and loading incorrectly near ocean biome.
MC-136218  Syntax help is offset to the right.
MC-136327  Drowned never spawn in river biomes.
MC-136400  'Serious Dedication' advancement not given when using up diamond hoe.
MC-136526  Crash when generating near top of world.
MC-136869  TNT falling through slabs when ignited it.
MC-136902  Monuments do not generate when upgrading world from 1.7.10 to 1.13.1.
MC-137009  Shulker detection range incorrect for invisible targets.
MC-137162  Debug profiler results confuses milliseconds and nanoseconds.
MC-137229  Book corruption when 1.8 world is loaded in 1.13.
MC-137266  Colon in 'Direct Connect' menu crashes game.
MC-137300  ConcurrentModificationException thrown when upgrading world.
MC-137308  selectWorld.edit.backupFailed has no translation.
MC-137353  Game runs out of memory while building datafixers.
MC-138003  Can't move backwards in signs while writing/cannot copy anything from the sign.
MC-138361  The player falls through detracting pistons.
MC-138486  When a player falls to the void the player is bugged.
MC-139141  Mushroom stem blocks changed color on maps.
MC-139493  Falling blocks float on snow layers.
MC-139712  Copying one half of unrecognized Unicode character crashes client.
MC-140680  Animals not spawning after adding grass to completely mobless superflat worlds.
MC-142768  Mobs can suffocate below blocks, if the eye height isn't inside the collision box.
MC-144928  Endermen don't try to avoid fireworks.
MC-145132  "g" character is missing a pixel.
MC-146357  Vines cannot exist on the sides of glass or stained glass, but can on other transparent blocks.
MC-146863  Shakespearean English's name occludes its own selection box.
MC-146931  Certain letters in upside down English do not use the correct font.
MC-147602  Changing full-screen resolution doesn't work on 4k screens.
From the 1.12 development versions

MC-138396  Saddle "outline" is inaccurate.
MC-143201  Shooting a player with a crossbow while PVP off crashes the server.
MC-143889  Shapeless recipes only check for number of items and number of occupied slots.
MC-145160  Crash while ticking hopper.
MC-145664  Crash: java.lang.NullPointerException: Unexpected error.
MC-145766  Iron golems spawning at an alarming rate.
MC-147728  Carpets prevent the player from respawning at their bed.
MC-147733  Cannot craft specific firework stars.
MC-147761  Crash while ticking sign.
MC-148059  Beacons sometimes don't activate or change effect.
MC-148147  Exception in server tick loop and Optimization failing only after 1.14pre2.
MC-148461  Java crash: libjemalloc.so.
MC-148647  u00b7 is duplicated in nonlatin_european.png. The second one should be u0387.
From the previous development version

MC-148723  Skylight not correctly propagated from empty subchunks.
MC-148779  Books can be crafted backwards.


== Gallery ==


== Videos ==


== See also ==
Bedrock Edition 1.11.0
PlayStation 4 Edition 1.91


== References ==


== Navigation ==