On April 1, 2013, Mojang released a hoax announcement for Minecraft 2.0, a new game they had supposedly been working on for two years, describing how it would "bring blocky simulation games to the next level". The post also contained a changelog comprised mostly of nonsensical changes, such as a new slab of TNT called the etho slab, and the addition of blocks of coal (which did not exist at the time).
Although lacking most of the promised additions, Minecraft 2.0 was produced and distributed to select celebrity individuals to showcase to the public as part of the joke. Minecraft 2.0 is a fork of 1.5.1, and is the only joke release not available through the Minecraft Launcher.
A special preview edition of 2.0 was released to YouTubers earlier to prepare their April 1 videos.
Despite being a joke, some of the features in this version were implemented in subsequent release versions.


== Versions ==
There were 3 versions of this update:

Red
Has super hostile mode
Blue
Has most of the features described here
Purple
Contains everything in Red and Blue versions


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
 Etho slab

Has a data value of 160.
Also has a double slab variant with the ID 159.
Can be crafted with 3 TNT:

Like other slabs, it can be placed on the lower or upper half of a block.
Functions identically to normal TNT; however, when it explodes, it spawns an anvil over any mobs in its range, including players.
This and the block's name are references to EthosLab, who is a Minecraft YouTuber who often tries to kill players with falling anvils.
 Torch (burnt-out)

Has a data value of 161.
Created when a lit torch burns out after a random amount of ticks.
Can be relit with flint and steel.
 Block of coal

Has a data value of 162.
Just like the other mineral blocks, it is crafted with 9 coal:

When crafted back into regular coal, the produced coal does not stack with other coal in the inventory, due to having a data value of 32767.
Shows various speech bubbles when punched, and eventually strikes the ground with lightning if punched enough times.
Was a joke, but blocks of coal were added in the next major update.
 Tinted Glass

Has a data value of 163.
Is opaque.
Crafted from glass with any color the dye exists for, and yields 8 tinted glass of the corresponding color:

Contains block data values ranging from 015 that specify the color of the glass. Wool's block data values produce the same colors when used on tinted glass.
In Java Edition 1.7.2, tinted glass was added to the game under the name stained glass.
At its first introduction, 13w41a, it used the 2.0 textures, but it was changed in the next snapshot, 13w42a.
In Java Edition 1.17, tinted glass was added. It is unlikely that the identical naming of these blocks was intentional.


=== Mobs ===

Aside from the pink wither, the mobs added are variants of preexisting mobs.
  Horses and ponies

Textures are called cow_horse and pig_horse.
These "horses" and "ponies" can sometimes be obtained when cows or pigs are spawned with spawn eggs.
They follow a player holding an apple or sugar, but they breed like normal cows and pigs.
Were a joke, but horses were added in the next major update, although with a completely different appearance compared to the "horses" in this version.
 Pink wither

Attracted to sugar, restores health to all surrounding mobs, and applies bone meal to all eligible neighboring blocks.
It also has the ability to grow roses, dandelions, grass and ferns on grass blocks, due to the bone meal.
Starts off with one head. Feeding it sugar grows another head (up to three) and increases the range of these effects.
Pink withers are spawned by placing pink wool with a flower pot containing a rose on top.
Just like their evil counterpart, they drop nether stars.
It is still classified as a hostile mob, though its behavior is not hostile.
The pink wither is also considered undead, and is hurt by potions of Healing and healed by potions of Harming.
Unlike the normal wither, the pink wither can't fly and has no health bar.
In the version .jar file the texture is named wither_pink.
Pink withers were also seen in 15w14a, another April Fools snapshot.
 Diamond chicken

Spawns instead of a normal chicken in rare circumstances.
Lays diamonds or lapis lazuli, or explodes, instead of laying eggs.
 Redstone bug

Has the appearance of a silverfish, but with a shade of red that is the same as the redstone it spawns over.
Spawns when a redstone error is activated, on the spot of the error.
Has the same AI as regular silverfish.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Dropper

Has been renamed to "Flopper". However, its interface still displays "Dropper".
Changes anything it drops to a raw fish.
Furnace

Has a new tag [Short] Heat that can reach from 0 to 700.
The tag increases every tick the furnace is lit with a 50% probability.
It decreases with a 25% probability every tick it is not lit.
The furnace has a higher chance of spawning a large smoke particle the higher the [Short] Heat tag is.
When [Short] Heat reaches 700 the furnace has a 25% chance of exploding every tick.
The explosion has a power of 5 and creates fire.
Torches

Burn out over time, turning into burnt-out torches.
They can be relit with flint and steel.


=== Mobs ===
Chickens

Are now a neutral mob, and spawn reinforcements with a 25% probability when hit.
Like endermen, they attack when the player looks at them. This can be prevented by wearing a pumpkin. They have an attack strength of 4HP.
Pigs, mooshrooms, cows, sheep and chickens

New tag Fatness with a default value of 0.
Increases every time they are fed with the item to breed them.
The size of body increases except for chickens.
When the Fatness reaches 10 or higher the animal explodes without destroying any blocks.
They drop up to two times their Fatness items.
Sheep

Using a golden apple makes them fly.
Zombie pigmen

Now carry "Battlesigns".


=== General ===
Mobs

"Super Hostile Mode" is an occasional event (every 25 minutes on purple version).
This mode consists of a shower of lightning bolts around the player (and usually striking the player at least once), while spawning a large number of powerful monsters in the area and applying the Blindness status effect to the player. These spawns include not only heavily armed and armored zombies and skeletons, and multiple charged creepers, but even the occasional blaze and other monsters that do not usually spawn in the Overworld. This is a reference to Vechs' Super Hostile series of maps. All of these are apparently triggered by "punching wood" or crafting anything. Naturally, these are some of the first things a Survival player needs to do.
Options

Added a new option for "Super HD Graphics". When this option is turned on, it makes all textures monochrome except for recolored/secondary layer textures, such as grass side overlay or the colored glass. The "Super HD Graphics" mode does not affect the game's performance.
Speech bubbles

Blocks and mobs can have speech bubbles containing text above their heads, simulating talking.
List of all quotes:
That hurts :(
My eye!
..zzZZZ
Why!?
I'll be back!
You didn't ....
Oof
(&%!@*#&%!@$#
Ouch
Hi there!
That tickles
Who's there!
I thought we were friends
You're mean!
Whiiii
Not dropping anything!
I like you!
I HATE you!
YOU NO TAKE .. COBBLE!
I'm diamond
You punched me
Stop punching me
I'm dirt
Mummy?
SSSSSSST
KABOOM?
BULLY!
I'm telling
Creeper behind you!
Did I do bad?
Hello


== Videos ==
The update was intended to be given to the following YouTubers as trailer videos: 

SethBling  MindCrack SMP  Ep 1: MineCraft 2.0 Pre-Release Review
BlameTheController  Minecraft 2.0 Beta Ep 1: Multiplayer Dungeon World first
Guude  Minecraft MindCrack - S4E1 - Minecraft 2.0
Xisumavoid  Minecraft 2.0 Update Preview
Keralis  Wife vs. Minecraft - Episode 30: Minecraft 2.0!
Biffa2001  Minecraft 2.0 One Life - "Death By Blue Chickens" (April Fools Humor/Comedy!)
Docm77  Minecraft 2.0 Closed Beta - Exclusive First Look
W92Baj  Minecraft 2.0 - You wont believe what has been added - Mindcrack prelease overview.
Mhykol  Mhykol Mines - Mindcrack - Episode 259 - Minecraft 2.0
Generikb  Minecraft 2.0 FIRST LOOK!
Vechs  Ep01 Minecraft 2.0 LP - A Fresh Start
Paul Soares Jr  Minecraft 2.0 - Mindcrack EXCLUSIVE SNEAK PEEK!
Pyropuncher  Minecraft 2.0 Footage!
Pakratt0013  Pakratt's Collections 55: First Impressions of 2.0
AvidyaZen  MINECRAFT 2.0 - THE NDA HAS BEEN LIFTED!
Joe Hills  Minecraft 2.0, now with more abominations!
Millbee  Preview Of The Minecraft 2.0 Update!
AnderZel  Minecraft 2.0 Update Pink Witter?
ElRichMC  Minecraft Review, 2.0 (April Fools Day)


== Issues ==
2.0 is not supported due to being an April Fools' joke, and therefore issues affecting it are closed as "Invalid" in the issue tracker.

Mooshrooms use the cow texture instead of the normal one.


== Trivia ==

Starting from 2 April 2013, 00:00, regardless of time zone, the only splash shown is "APRIL FOOLS!" in magenta letters and has a random size, but larger than normal.
Lightning can strike mobs through blocks.
The easier the difficulty, the more challenging Super Hostile mode is. However, if the player changes the difficulty to Peaceful, the Super Hostile mode is disabled. This is due to Peaceful difficulty despawning hostile mobs and not allowing them to spawn.
Burnt-out torches were originally supposed to be added in the Halloween Update, where lanterns were supposed to be the new light source. However, this feature wasn't added to the Halloween Update before release and was later officially rejected.
The textures for tinted glass, diamond chickens, and redstone bugs are all coded into the game, and are not found with the other mobs in the texture pack folders.
The changelog contained a lot of seemingly nonsensical changes that were not included in the final release:
It said "Fixed a bug where skeletons would miss their targets on occasion".
It said that there were many things added to fishing, including new fish. It proceeded to note that fishing had been removed and if the player had fish in their inventory they would be damaged to discourage fishing.
Java Edition 2.0 is the only April Fool's version that is unavailable in the launcher.


== See also ==
Java Edition 15w14a (2015)
Java Edition 1.RV-Pre1 (2016)
Java Edition 3D Shareware v1.34 (2019)
Java Edition 20w14 (2020)
Java Edition 22w13oneBlockAtATime (2022)
Java Edition 23w13a_or_b (2023)
Java Edition 24w14potato (2024)
Java Edition 25w14craftmine (2025)
Java Edition 26w14a (2026)


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==