Jomang Studios, also known as Softmicro Studios, is a fictional company, only appearing in How We Make Minecraft Series 2. It is a competitor to Mojang Studios in the series, known to produce unknown video games and non-fungible tokens.


== Description ==
Jomang Studios is based inside of a colossal skyscraper overlooking the headquarters of Mojang Studios in Stockholm, Sweden. The building stands at least thirteen floors, the majority of the visible ones featuring outdoor balconies. Encasing the building is a colossal recreation of a leather jacket, itself nearly twice the size of the Mojang headquarters, and visibly obscuring several of the balcony windows. It is unknown if the balconies extend to the obscured areas or if the space is used for additional indoor rooms.
The roof of the building holds a large model of the company logo, mirroring the logo of Mojang used since 2020. Underneath the logo is the company slogan, We Love Originality!, which sarcastically alludes to the companys ulterior motives and questionable practices. Beneath the slogan are several high ranking floors, and below those are a pair of giant sunglasses made of polished blackstone, stationed between a floor and another balcony. The functionality of the sunglasses is uncertain, but it is likely meant to compliment the jacket and give the allure of the greaser archetype, again hinting at the malicious actions enforced by the management.
Behind the sunglasses is a meeting room, where the Founder is seen speaking with Narrator and M.A.R.I.L.L.A. The sunglasses from the inside are more clearly made of blackstone, while the windows are glass panes, the floor polished deepslate, and the walls dried kelp blocks. The hosts sit at a table made of dark oak planks, their chairs merely several dark oak trapdoors. Behind them are several bookshelves lined with more trapdoors, gray concrete walls, and a doorway lined with quartz pillars. The penultimate scene of the season reveals the entrance of the building, showing that the jacket doesn't extend to at least the first five floors of the building, with several redstone lamp fixtures, an artificial tree, smooth stone pavement, and glass pane doors present.


== Biography ==
The company was founded at an unknown date, for the express purpose of "ripping off Minecraft, making loads of money, and turning all the world's water into NFTs." In an attempt to monitor the development of Minecraft and steal potential innovations or design information, the company elected to send Narrator as a spy, posing as a coffee boy by tricking him into thinking he was hired to become a developer. As a means to leak the desired information, Narrator and M.A.R.I.L.L.A. revived How We Make Minecraft, beginning with an episode dedicated to the development of the mace.
By the second episode, Narrator had managed to get himself promoted to "Senior Coffee Boy," and using his new perks managed to break into the company dumpster to acquire concept art for the trial chambers. However, unaware of the corporate espionage, M.A.R.I.L.L.A. claimed she was also able to obtain it over email. Eventually, Narrator would get promoted again, becoming the "Senior Tea Boy," in spite of several apparent accidents. In the proceeding weeks, Narrator would begin posing as the CEO of Mojang Studios, when in actuality he had been promoted again to "Coffee Extremely Overdone."
Ultimately, the founder of the company would discover that Narrator had fallen too into character, and brought him back into the office to berate him for failing the mission. By coincidence, M.A.R.I.L.L.A. had decided to apply for a job at Jomang the same day, and ended up being given the rank of Coffee Girl out of spite for Narrator. The two would proceed to return to Mojang headquarters to film the apparent 901st episode of the series, and fifth broadcasted, detailing the development of the crafter. By the end of the lecture, the founder was shocked to discover the financial and physical costs of game development, and canceled their plans to plagiarize the game. As part of the shift, Narrator and M.A.R.I.L.L.A. were kicked out of the building, literally, as the sign was written over to say Softmicro Studios.


== Known employees ==
Founder
M.A.R.I.L.L.A.[formerly]
Narrator[formerly]
Plains Villagers


== Trivia ==
For unknown reasons, Narrator's name tag labeled him as a spy. It is unclear if this was hastily given to him by Jomang or if Mojang was aware of the intended deception all along.
Jomang Studios' involvement in the plot of How We Make Minecraft is foreshadowed by a subtitle on the title card of every episode; "A Step-by-Step Guide to Ripping Us Off."
Another clue is Narrator offhandedly mentioning owning a Jomang T-shirt.
According to Narrator, Mojang occasionally obtains feedback, or "double dares", from Jomang. This is implied to be because they "find [them] cooler."
Jomang is an anagram of Mojang in which the m and the j swapped places.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==