The Tutorial is a world that introduces the player to the basic mechanics of Minecraft. Available only in the Legacy Console Edition, it allows newcomers to familiarize themselves with the game, primarily with the controls and the crafting system. The world and presentation differ depending on the version of the game it was created in; however, the basic tutorial mechanics remain the same. All versions begin with the player in a small, enclosed area where building, crafting, mining, and survival mechanics are introduced. The tutorial world contains twelve hidden chests with music discs that the player can search for.


== Concepts covered ==
The tutorial walks the player through:

Chopping wood
Game controls
Creating planks and a crafting table
Inventory use
Creating basic tools
Using a furnace
Building a shelter
Surviving the night
Sprinting
Jumping
Hunger and Health
Other tutorials for features such as beds, Nether portals, trading, boats, pistons, brewing, and fishing rods are scattered throughout the world, but are not part of the main tutorial.


== Tutorial area ==

The tutorial world depends on the version of the game that it is created in.
The tutorial world on Xbox One Edition and Nintendo Switch Edition introduces features added in TU46, such as the Elytra. Since these two editions equate to the World of Color Update, they currently use an older version of the tutorial world than the other Legacy Console Editions.
The tutorial world on Xbox 360 Edition, PlayStation 3 Edition, PlayStation Vita Edition, PlayStation 4 Edition, and Wii U Edition introduces Update Aquatic features added in TU69.
When a player joins the tutorial world, they are initially spawned into a small forest area with an incomplete miner's shelter. This basic tutorial area is enclosed by a natural wall. The player cannot leave this area until they have completed or skipped the basic tutorial, which teaches them aspects of the game including controls, menus, crafting, smelting, and building. In early iterations of the tutorial, players could learn about basic redstone contraptions, fishing, and boats (TU1-TU11). This was changed in later updates (TU12+), as the basic tutorial area was simplified.​[more information needed]
from TU46 onward, the walls around the spawn area would become towering, giving a more claustrophobic feeling than the previous ones
Once the player leaves the basic tutorial area, they can explore the rest of the tutorial world
From TU5 onward, twelve music discs were hidden throughout the tutorial world. Players could explore the tutorial world to find them all. They were often hidden in various man-made structures, such as the Minecraft logo.
From TU7 onward, the immediate area outside of the tutorial world featured sub-tutorials for features such as enchanting and brewing. As new features were added with updates, respective tutorial areas were added as well.
Some of the Tutorial worlds received updates when new features were added
The TU3 update improved the TU0 tutorial world with the following:
Redstone components were added to the spawn area, including a tutorial explaining pistons to the player
A cobblestone generator bridge was added in front of the castle
A secret Nether Portal was included inside the floating Minecraft logo
An underwater cavity containing a full set of diamond tools and armor was added next to the castle
The TU9 update improved the TU7 tutorial world with the following:
Added new structures for players to explore
The locations of the 12 music discs were changed
The TU14 update improved the TU12 tutorial world with the following:
New tutorials were added for villager trading, item repair, and ender chests
Added new structures for players to explore
The locations of the 12 music discs were changed
In total, there are eight unique tutorial worlds (TU0, TU5, TU7, TU12, TU19, TU31, TU46, and TU69 respectively)
Each distinct tutorial world featured unique world generation
The main castle in the TU12 and TU14 tutorial worlds is a recreation of Edinburgh Castle in Edinburgh, Scotland
TU31 is a recreation of various structures from Scotland, which also contains the same recreation of Edinburgh Castle
Tutorial worlds slowly became bigger and better. While early tutorial worlds only featured tutorials for basic features and a few builds, later tutorials included a swath of manmade structures for the player to explore, often resembling structures in real life.
The names for the tutorial worlds originated from Xbox 360 title updates
Title Update 3, for example, is shortened to TU3


== History ==


== Trivia ==
In the TU3-4 tutorial world, there is an underwater room containing a full set of diamond armor & tools. It is located to the right of the castle's tallest tower, outlined with white wool at the top.
In the TU3-4 tutorial world, there is a lever on each side of the floating Minecraft logo. Flipping it reveals a concealed hallway with a lit nether portal in the middle.
In the TU3-4 tutorial world, there is a gravel "x" at the coordinates (213, 75, 55). Digging down reveals a dungeon with a skeleton spawner.
In the TU5-6 tutorial world, chests on the outer portions of the world often fail to generate when the tutorial world is initially loaded. It's difficult to generate this tutorial world with all twelve chests. This glitch can occur in the TU7-11 tutorial world, yet it is less common..
TU12-14 contain a recreation of Edinburgh Castle as the main area 
it also reappears in TU31's tutorial world
TU31-45 is a recreation of various places in Scotland 
An empty version of the old TU12 main area (Edinburgh Castle) appears in TU31, it even includes the main spawn area. it's located northwest on the map 
The western main island of the TU19 tutorial world is based off of Isle of Skye and Stampy’s Island being based off Isle of Rum
In the southwest corner of the TU19 tutorial world Stampylonghead’s House and SS Stumpy from the popular YouTube series 'Stampy's Lovely World' can be found along with two music discs.
In the TU69 tutorial world, the world of the old TU46 tutorial world can be located south of the new spawn. The orientation in which the old spawn was sunken and aligned is a reference to the then Update Aquatic.


== Gallery ==


=== Maps ===


=== Xbox 360 Demo Screenshots ===


=== Mojang and partners screenshots ===


=== Screenshots ===


== References ==


== See also ==
Legacy Console Edition tutorial/Coordinates
Legacy Console Edition tutorial/Locations


== Navigation ==