This is a list of all of the features exclusive to the Legacy Console Edition.


== General ==

Tutorial
DLC
Mash-up packs
Has more music tracks.
Texture packs
Legacy Console Edition texture packs
They were replaced by resource packs from Java Edition in 1.6.1.
Achievements/Trophies
More achievements/trophies.
Bonus Chest
Labeled as "Bonus Chest" instead of just "Chest" in the UI. Breaking and then placing the chest back down removes this unique label.
Skins
14 extra default skins.
Certain Console Edition-exclusive skin packs.
Leaderboards
Mini Games
Tumble mini-game
Battle mini-game
Glide mini-game
Descriptions
Gives the player detailed instructions about what an item/block/entity does.
Sleeping
New sleeping animation.


== World generation ==
World sizes
Options for classic (864×864), small (1024×1024), medium (3072×3072), and large (5120×5120) world sizes. Large, medium, and small are only available on the Xbox One Edition and PlayStation 4 Edition. On the Nintendo Switch Edition, there are only classic, small, and medium world sizes.
Water moat occupies the outer 2 chunks to smoothly transition to the edge of the world.
Overwrite world edges option when expanding a world from a smaller size to a larger size, resetting the outer 2 chunks in the smaller world, removes the water moat at the edge of the world.
Classic world size generates more villages than large world sizes.
Biome Scale
Small, medium, and large option. The small option is the default due to limited world size, so one world can have more biomes.
Biome generation is roughly based on Java Edition 64 bit generation seeds. Large biome size is equivalent to biome size 4 from Java Edition Old Customized worlds, Medium is rough approximation on biome size 3, and small biome size roughly approximates to biome size 2. This is due to biome scaling taking place before hill biomes, edge biomes, and beach biome are applied to the map, unlike Java Edition Old Customized worlds where the scaling occurs after.
Mushroom biomes generate in different locations compared to Java Edition.
Since the Exploration Update, temples and structures attempt to spawn more frequently, due to limited world sizes, especially with woodland mansions.
There is a "Find Balanced Seed" option, selected by default, which makes the game randomly select seeds that have a better variety of biomes.
The Nether
Noise generation is loosely based on Java Edition Nether noise generation.
Has limited size, at 288×288, and is slightly larger with a larger world size. On Large worlds, the Nether is up to 640×640.
The Nether-Overworld portal ratio is larger depending on world size: 1:3 in Classic and Small; 1:6 in Medium; and 1:8, like other versions of Minecraft, in Large.
Nether wart spawns randomly wherever soul sand is generated in the Nether.
The edge of this dimension is made of bedrock.
The Nether is hollow, with a flat ground, when using a superflat world.
The End
Up to one End gateway can generate on Xbox 360 Edition, PlayStation 3 Edition, PlayStation Vita Edition, and Wii U Edition, whereas up to four End gateways can generate on Xbox One Edition, PlayStation 4 Edition, and Nintendo Switch Edition.
The coordinates they generate are as follows, with the first set of coordinates being that of the first End gateway, and the remaining 3 gateways using the 3 remaining coordinates, but not in any particular order:
x:65 y:75 z:0
Leads to the southern island and is guaranteed to generate an End city.
x:-65 y:75 z:0
Leads to the eastern island.
x:0 y:75 z:65
Leads to the northern island.
x:0 y:75 z:-65
Leads to the western island.
Each End gateway portal leads to one outer island, which is as big as the main island. On the Xbox 360 Edition, PlayStation 3 Edition, PlayStation Vita Edition, and Wii U Edition, the only generated outer island always generates an End city with an End ship.
The End gateways in the outer islands generate at a random position in a random corner and always 10 blocks above the ground just like in Java Edition.
The size does not change with regard to the world's world size. Even on the classic world size, the islands are so far apart that they are all on different maps.
The spawn End island generates at 0,0, up to 96 blocks form the origin. Outer islands generate 2048 blocks from the origin in cardinal directions.
Each island is surrounded by invisible walls, making it impossible to go between them without the use of End gateways.
Only a 192 by 192 block area (12 by 12 chunks generate, 6 chunks from the center) for each island.
Only the spawn End island's noise generation loosely follows Java Edition End noise generation. The outer End islands always generate the End island; rather than other End biomes (small End islands).
The obsidian platform is located at X=60, Y=49, Z=60; unlike that of Java or Bedrock.
End spikes are generated differently:
Generates 8 pillars instead of 10.
Centers of the pillars have a horizontal euclidean distance of 40 blocks to the exit portal.
Are sorted by size with an ascending order clockwise.
Start generating at Y-Level 1 instead of 0.
The smallest pillar generates until Y-Level 73. Each next pillar going clockwise is 3 blocks taller.
The 2 tallest pillars have iron bars.
The exit portal always generates at Y-Level 63.
The exit portal always generates with a small island made out of End stone around it even with world seeds that otherwise do not generate a central island.
Superflat Interface
An interface for creating superflat worlds. While a similar interface exists on older versions of Java Edition, in Legacy Console Edition, it is much more versatile, allowing you to change what generates, how much it generates, and more.
A maximum of 128 layers, including at least one layer of bedrock always at the bottom of the world that cannot be changed or removed.
The Legacy Console Edition is the only edition of the game to have a block selection menu and biome selection menu for custom superflats, the layout of which are shown below:
There are a total of 250 unique different blocks in the custom superflat block selection menu as of PlayStation 4 Edition 1.95. Not all blocks can be used for custom superflat, such as slabs or stairs.
There are a total of 21 different biomes in the biome selection menu for custom superflats. Not all biomes can be used, such as the birch forest, which is notably missing from the custom superflat biome selection menu.


== Options ==

Command-like options
All /gamerule command options except for reducedDebugInfo, randomTickSpeed and some others with an interface.
Game options
Online Game
Invite Only
Allow friends of friends
Player vs Player
Host Privileges
Daylight Cycle
Weather Cycle
Keep Inventory
Mob Spawning
Mob Griefing
Mob Loot
Tile Drops
Natural Regeneration
Biome Scale Slider
Find Balanced Seed
Autosave on/off
HUD Options
Interface Opacity
Interface Sensitivity
Display HUD
Display Hand
In-Game Tooltips
In-Game Gamertags
Splitscreen Gamertags
HUD Size
HUD Size (Splitscreen)
Other options
Cave Sounds
Minecart Sounds
Manual crafting
Reset Nether
Reset The End
Hints
Death messages
Render distance
The render distance is set to 10 chunks on the Xbox 360 Edition, PlayStation 3 Edition, and the Wii U Edition whereas on the Xbox One Edition and the PlayStation 4 Edition it is set to 18 chunks.


== Blocks and items ==

Banners
Have an automatic crafting option.
Dead bushes
Always drop 1 stick instead of 0-2.
Enchanted golden apple
Can be crafted with 1 apple and 8 blocks of gold.
Block of Emerald
Use the texture from 18w50a.‌[[[|PlayStation 4 Edition]]  only]
Golden Armor
Use the texture from 18w43a.‌[[[|PlayStation 4 Edition]]  only]
Leather Armor
Use the texture from Java Edition 1.13.‌[[[|PlayStation 4 Edition]]  only]
Firework rockets
Five pre-crafted firework rockets are available in Creative Mode. The types are as follows:
Duration 1, small ball, light blue, twinkle
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, light blue dye, and glowstone dust; then use the firework star, one paper, and one gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Duration 2, creeper shaped, green
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, green dye, and a mob head; then use the firework star, one paper, and two gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Duration 2, burst, red, fade to orange
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, red dye, and a feather; then add orange dye to the firework star; then use the firework star, one paper, and two gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Duration 3, burst, magenta, fade to blue, twinkle
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, magenta dye, a feather and glowstone dust; then add blue dye to the firework star; then use the firework star, one paper, and three gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Duration 2, star shaped, yellow, fade to orange, trail
Crafted by creating a firework star using gunpowder, yellow dye, a gold nugget, and a diamond; then add orange dye to the firework star; then use the firework star, one paper, and two gunpowder; to craft the firework rocket.
Firework stars are not directly obtainable in the Creative inventory.
Grass blocks
Render 3d in the side when not snowy.‌[[[|PlayStation 4 Edition]]  only]
Jack o'Lantern
Named "Jack-O-Lantern".
Jungle sapling
Named "Jungle Tree Sapling".
Kelp
Has a different hitbox.
Lava
Cannot be placed near the world spawn point and attempting to do so shows a warning.
Maps
The player always begins a new world with an empty map; it will be a map of 1024×1024 area size (1:8 scale, zoom step 3).
Maps will display the coordinates that the player is located at.
Coordinates displayed are that of the player's eye level, not the player's feet.
Cannot be zoomed in.
Are snapped to a grid different from Java Edition and Bedrock Edition.
Specifically, maps center on 0,0, so the map at spawn would cover up to 512 blocks from the origin. Large world maps cover from 512 to 1536 blocks, and then 1536 to 2560 blocks. The center of these maps are at 1024 or 2048.
Melons
Can drop 10 melon slices when mined with fortune 3.
Music disc
After the music disc "cat" finishes playing, the soundtrack "Dog" starts playing.
Playing a music disc in a jukebox stops background music for the duration of the music disc.
Nether wart
Nether wart generates randomly on any soul sand in the Nether, rather than exclusively in Nether fortresses.
Sand and red sand
Can be smelted in a blast furnace.
Short grass
Named "Tall Grass".
Shrubs
Obatinable in the Creative inventory.
Spawn eggs
Cannot spawn monsters on Peaceful difficulty. The player gets an error message and the spawn egg is not consumed.
Stonecutter
Shows all possible blocks that can be crafted, instead of just craftable blocks, when manual crafting is off.​[more information needed]
Tall grass
Named "Double Tall Grass".


== Mobs & entities ==
Blazes
Blazes drop 0-2 glowstone dust when killed.
Minecarts
Twice the speed as in Java Edition.
Phantoms
Only have 10 health instead of 20.
Skeletons
Use the old sounds for taking damage and dying.
Vindicators
Deal less damage.
Easy: 6 instead of 7
Normal: 10 instead of 13
Hard: 15 instead of 19
Wandering traders
Are able to sell lilacs, rose bushes, sunflowers, peonies and red sandstone.
Witches
 Use the texture from 18w50a.‌[PlayStation 4 Edition  only]
Withers
Perform their dash attack much more often than its Bedrock Edition counterpart.
Wither skeletons
Spawn in all parts of the Nether rather than only in Nether fortresses.


== Crafting ==

The game has a crafting system with the following categories. The categories of blocks and items in the crafting menu differ significantly from the Creative menu, and various blocks and items are grouped differently. Stonecutters have a separate interface, although it functions very similar to the crafting menu.
The crafting system in Legacy Console Edition could be changed to use the system from the Java Edition by checking the "Classic Crafting" option under "User Interface" in the options menu.
By default, Legacy Console Edition used a simplified crafting system. It did not require the player to place items in the correct place in the crafting interface, but instead displayed the ingredients required to craft the selected item and allows the player to craft that item as long as the player has the required crafting ingredients.
The PlayStation Vita and Wii U editions did not have the ability to craft using touch input.


=== Layout ===

Stonecutter block:


=== Notes ===
Crafting entries with an asterisk (*) do not appear outside the crafting table.
The armor tab does not show in the inventory crafting menu, only in the crafting table. All other crafting tabs show even in the inventory crafting menu. Only three of the six banner tabs show in the inventory banner crafting menu, including the select banner tab.
As with the Creative inventory, there is no search tab, unlike the recipe book on Java and Bedrock. Players must instead browse each individual tab to find the item in question, or toggle to show craftable items only.
When using the loom for banner crafting, only the banner crafting interface with the banner specific navigation tabs are available. In the first tab, only "Select Banner" is available.
Furnaces, blast furnaces, and smokers do not have a predefined menu selection of blocks, unlike the recipe book on other editions such as Java.
Colored materials are ordered by color data values, unlike colored items in the Creative inventory. This applies to all tabs (crafting, banners, dyes, fireworks), in both the crafting table and loom. The order of dyes in the crafting dyes in the decorations tab is different.


== Creative inventory ==

The Creative inventory in Legacy Console Edition was the same as Java Edition, albeit with slightly different tabs and its own set of items.
On PlayStation 4 Edition 1.95, there are a total of 1,043 unique items in the Creative inventory.


=== Layout ===


=== Differences ===
There is no search tab, with all of the Creative inventory's items in a single tab, on Legacy Console. Players must instead browse each individual tab to find the item in question.
Scrolling up and down in the Creative inventory and custom superflat scrolls one entire page at a time (five rows of items) on Legacy Console; instead of scrolling one row at a time like all other editions of the game.
Both Luck effect and Decay effect potions and tipped arrows are available on Legacy Console.
All Potion and Tipped Arrow types are arranged by base variants, followed by extended variants, and enhanced variants. They aren't arranged by regular, splash, and lingering potions like on Java or Bedrock.
Colored blocks and items are arranged in a different order from Java and Bedrock. They don't use a rainbow order like all colored blocks and items on Java (almost all on Bedrock).
Banners on Legacy Console are arranged differently from all other colored blocks and items within.
Enchanted books are ordered partially like that of Java, and those added after the World of Color update, partially like that of Bedrock, with other minor differences to the order of enchanted books.
Unlike later versions of Java or Bedrock Edition, spawn eggs are not sorted alphabetically, nor are they sorted with most passive mobs before most hostile ones. Instead; most hostile mob spawn eggs are listed before most passive mob spawn eggs.
Slabs, stairs, and walls share the same order between Legacy Console and Bedrock Edition with the following exception: Stone brick and mossy stone brick stairs and slabs are found between mossy cobblestone and wooden variants on Legacy Console, rather than between wooden and sandstone variants like on Bedrock.


== Other ==
Villager trading has a different GUI compared to other Minecraft editions.
3D blocks in the inventory have the same lighting on the X and Z axis facing sides, unlike Java and Bedrock. This is the case on more recent versions on some platforms.​[more information needed]
In the editions with the Update Aquatic, players can enter swimming mode if any part of their character is touching water, not just their head.
In all Legacy Console Editions there is a debug mode used by 4J Studios. Currently it can only be accessed in Xbox 360 Edition TU4 or below.
Rotating horizontally while gliding with an elytra tilts the camera. This can be disabled under "game options".
Sneaking while gliding with an elytra and not holding anything in the mainhand rotates the arm by 180° in third person.
Items that are renamed using an anvil have an orange name instead of an italic name.
Worn heads, carved pumpkins, and banners flash red when the entity takes damage.
Block breaking speed is not reduced when not touching the ground.
Sprinting is not cancelled when sprinting against a block.
Players can open inventory UIs while being inside a Nether portal.
An exclusive "Gary Banner!" splash exists.[when?]
Entering or leaving the End shows a message for other players. In the editions with the Update Aquatic, the player entering or leaving the End sees it too.
In the editions with the Update Aquatic, players swim up faster in water, allowing them to swim up in dragging bubble columns.
On the Xbox One Edition, you can add worlds to a ban list and when you join a world that's on the ban list. you will get a dialog box telling you if a world if you're joined is on the ban list.[1]


== History ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==