Living blocks are mobs meant to represent blocks in 26w14a.


== Spawning ==
Living blocks span most of the actions that previously generated an item entity, this includes:

Break a block that will generate loot,
Break a container,
Dropping an item (with some exceptions),
Kill an entity that drops loot or equipment,
Living blocks can also drop living block, see § Drop,
Other generations of loot table,
When a falling block dropped as an item,
When a lead breaks.
Similar to the behavior of items to be destroyed, destroying a living block container, such as a shulker box, chest, or bundle, will spawn the living blocks that items were inside. Some items from the living block container are also dropped as living block when cause a hit on the living block container. 
In some cases where items were generated in the inventory, they now generate living blocks. These are:

/give command
Player in Creative mode using pick block on a block.
But, using pick block on an entity, it still generates an item in the inventory.


=== Converting ===
Living blocks are also generated by procedures that previously transformed items into new items when used in the inventory; now, living block behaviors generate new living blocks, such as:

Crafting using a crafting grid,
Smelt a living block,
Fill a living bucket.
Other conversions memetize block behaviors, which are:

Living concrete powder, when in contact with water, transforms into living concrete,
Living sponge, when in contact with water, transforms into living wet sponge.
Living iron bars can be form living iron traps, and living copper bars can be form living iron traps.


=== Monster spawners ===
Living end portal frame monster spawners naturally generate in end portal rooms in strongholds, where in regular versions a silverfish monster spawners is generated. Groups of up to 4 living end portal frame are spawned at a time until a total of 12 are reached near the spawner. More living end portal frame may be generated if remove or move the living end portal frame next to the spawn spawners.


== Drop ==


=== On death ===
Living blocks drop the result of a one-item recipe if the item associated with the living block is used. For example, a living oak log drops four living oak planks, since with exactly one oak log can craft four oak planks.
Living block containers also drop the items that are in their internal inventory.


== Behavior ==
Living blocks stay still until commanded to do something. When commanded they will roll (if they are a block) or fly (if they are an item).


=== Replace item entity ===
The item entity has been removed, and in many instances where it was previously used, living blocks is now used instead.
Drop
Previously, when an item dropped from the inventory, a container, etc., an item entity was created on the ground. Now the behavior is different and depends on the item in question:

If it's an action item, nothing happens.
If it's a spawn egg, the related mob is spawned.
In reality, this behavior is defined by the component minecraft:entity_data
The item bat_spawn_egg[!minecraft:entity_data] is dropped as a live block from the bat spawn egg and not as a bat.
The item stone[minecraft:entity_data={id:bat}] is dropped as a bat and not as a living stone.
Otherwise, it creates a living block.
The number of living blocks created is equal to the number of items dropped.
Each block is spawned next to the previous one in an randon horizontally direction.
If there is a collision at the location, the block searches for a new spawn point in a 7x5x7 area where the initial position is the center of that area floor.
First, the block reaches all positions on the Y-axis. If it doesn't move horizontally and reaches all positions on the Y-axis, then moving horizontally prioritizes blocks closer to the original position.
If it cannot find a valid position, it spawns at the original position.
If the item was dropped by a player, the living block considers that player as its owner and is selected.


=== Special properties ===

Some living blocks have special properties:

Living wool floats upwards. If more than three wool are following the player, the player gets reduced gravity, allowing them to jump higher and fall slower.
Living anvils have a unique attack where they fly to the target, then turn into a regular falling block high above it aiming to fall on it and deal damage
Living glass can take fall damage
Living levers can be toggled, and will also toggle themselves at random.
Living beds can be slept in
The player’s view will move and even rotate with it
The respawn point will only be set by actually sleeping in it, interacting with it is not sufficient
The respawn point will not move around with the bed
Destroying the bed does not remove the respawn point
Living furnaces, blast furnaces, smokers, and campfires will smelt/cook nearby compatible living blocks automatically (no fuel needed)
Living chests, barrels, and other containers will pick up nearby living blocks, as long as the living blocks are not part of a group and the other usual restrictions are met and will not respond to build commands.
The contents can be opened by using it. Items are dropped out and converted to living blocks. Dispensers and droppers will instead do their usual action. Punching or killing the living block also ejects their contents. Ender chests make enderman sounds when picking up blocks
Certain combinations of living blocks may combine into structures (made of regular blocks). The shape is not important, the necessary blocks just have to get close to each other.

Any door may combine with 23 other blocks to combine into a small 3x3x3 house. The other blocks can be, for example, dirt, planks, logs, cobblestone (but not stone).
The blocks that can be used in the house are controlled by the tag #builds_into_house.
Bone meal can combine with saplings to make trees.
This does not work with other plants, but most of these can be built to grow normally.
When 12 living obsidian and a living flint and steel are near each other, they will transform into a Nether portal
This is despite the fact that a minimum of 10 obsidian is ordinarily required
This also does not match with the generated portal having 14 obsidian, as the corners are filled in with obsidian
The flint and steel is entirely consumed even though ordinarily it would have 64 uses before breaking
Nether portals can still be constructed out of ordinary obsidian blocks and lit
When living End portal frames and living eyes of ender get close to each other, they may combine.
When at least 12 living end portal frames with eyes are near each other, they will transform into an End portal (made of regular blocks).
Golems and the wither can all be constructed out of the usual blocks.
The wither skips its usual charge up.
The copper chest created with a copper golem is a living block, not a regular one.
272 cobblestone, 16 glass, and 4 torches (or 4 copper torches or 4 soul torches) combine into a 9x6x9 structure with a single 2-block gap for an entrance, 4 glass skylights, and one torch on each wall.
Similarly when 8 living iron bars are nearby, they may randomly turn into a living iron trap. 8 copper bars may likewise turn into a living copper trap.
These kinds of living blocks relentlessly pursue the player, regardless of distance or even gamemode.
When they make contact with the player, they create a 3x3x3 structure out of iron/copper bars that entirely encloses the player, except on the bottom. This can potentially destroy other blocks.
Can still be commanded despite this apparently hostile behavior, but will resume pursuit afterwards.
Consequently, they can be neutralized by commanding them to build, turning them into regular blocks.
Doors always appear as the bottom half only, even when instructed to "build" converting back into regular blocks, except by the above process.
Living light source blocks function as expected.
Interact with living blocks (using Punch, Craft, or Highlight) to use an item's normal use functionality, if it has any.

Food can be eaten
When a potion or milk bucket is consumed this way, the container disappears too.
Eyes of ender can be thrown
Ender pearls will teleport the player somewhere random without being consumed
Interacting with a living boat or minecart item will turn it into a normal boat/minecart (only on rails for minecarts)
Lava and water buckets (including buckets with mobs inside) will place the appropriate liquid, ejecting an empty bucket off to the side
Some items do not activate in this way but activate randomly on their own:

Flint and steel sets fire as it moves. Fire charges do likewise but are consumed.
This can be used to access the Nether through lighting a portal made of regular blocks of obsidian without consuming the flint and steel
Bows and crossbows shoot automatically when commanded to attack and provided with arrows nearby.
Arrows try to move near bows and crossbows.
Hoes will randomly till nearby blocks
Axes will randomly strip nearby blocks
Shovels will randomly transform nearby blocks
Some items will not do their intended function when interacting with them:

Splash potions
Empty maps
Fishing rods
Carrot on a stick and warped fungus on a stick
Goat horns
Other items also have special behavior:

Living weapons do more attack damage matching their usual properties.
Living tools can be used to mine.
Living armor may equip itself to nearby compatible entities. After that, it functions completely normally.
It will not replace any armor already present.
Elytra cannot be equipped
Chests cannot be equipped onto donkeys/mules/llamas
Elytra launch any colliding living blocks upward
TNT will ignite as usual when set on fire or broken. It will also ignite when killed, with a shorter than usual ignition time.
Cows, pigs, and sheep will be tempted by their usual food items in living form (controlled by block tags).
Snow (not snow block) can be rolled around on non-living snow and it will absorb it and grow taller each time it lays flat on the surface.
Living buckets that enter water sources, lava sources, or powder snow will fill with the appropriate contents, consuming the liquid/powder snow.
Living concrete powder that enters water (source blocks only) will convert into living concrete, consuming the water.


== Sounds ==


== Data values ==


=== Entity data ===
Java Edition:


== Advancements ==


== Issues ==
Issues relating to "Living Block" are not maintained on the bug tracker because it is an April Fools' joke, and is therefore not in the newest stable version or snapshot. Issues reported there are closed as "Invalid".


== Gallery ==


== Navigation ==