The Maze of the Minotaur is an island labyrinth serving as the setting of Poseidon's fifth and final challenge in Minecraft Mini-Series.


== Description ==
The Maze of the Minotaur is located on a small desert island. While most of the island is made up of sand, the end of the maze features a grassy cliff with a stone cave emerging from it.
The labyrinth's walls are made of stone bricks, with the occasional chiseled stone and stone blocks with Greek engravings. The entrance has sugar cane patches growing on the sides. There are multiple dead ends in the maze, as well as Athens creepers scattered across.
The end of the maze consists of a small court with a cave shaped like a bull's head. Fire is lit on the "eyes" while some blocks of gold and an obsidian block make up the nose ring. Inside the cave, the flooring is partly and evenly covered in lava, with some pillars topped with blocks with incandescent engravings. The center of the cave features the final enchanted ender eye chest.


== History ==
After winning the challenge hosted by the Chimera in his theater, the players find themselves on a quest to find the final enchanted ender eye in the Maze of the Minotaur. There, Zed managed to reach the end by merely digging through, while the other players went through the maze, encountering Athens creepers in the process. While they proved dangerous, Durango used their ability to destroy blocks for his advantage by going through the holes with his friends. After reaching the end, the team got overwhelmed by creepers, who ran away out of fear after Durango scared them with a series of battle cries. Soon, it turned out the creepers were afraid of the Minotaur Golem, who came out of his lair. Then, a cyclops and Cerberus joined him to fight the players. However, the Minotaur Golem and cyclops fell into a ditch dug by Zed, and an outnumbered Cerberus flew away. Then, the team managed to claim the enchanted ender eye in the lair before getting teleported to the main island.


== Visitors ==
CommuniKate
Durango
Quinn
River
Toby
Zed


== Trivia ==
In Greek mythology, the Labyrinth is a complex maze built for King Minos of Crete in order to imprison the Minotaur.


== Navigation ==