The MCC x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party, also referred to as MC Championship x Minecraft 15th Anniversary Party, the MC Championship Mini-games Event, or MCC Party, was an event server made in collaboration with Noxcrew.
The event consisted of 5 servers, including the Main Lobby and 4 mini-games: Ace Race, Grid Runners, Sands of Time and Meltdown. Players can earn coins by playing games which can then be spent in the server store, which includes mascot hats and hats that can be worn with Cosmetic Chest, toys that can be used for entertainment, and food that can be used to acquire status effects.
The event introduces 15 challenges, most of which themed after MCC teams. To complete the challenges, players are required to play the mini-games, explore the servers, and complete the mystery cave challenges, which are mystery tasks that can be completed by following hieroglyphic clues. For each challenge a player completes, they earn exclusive character creator items. After a player completes all 15 challenges, they can receive the MC Championship Cape.
The event was announced on July 16, 2024. It is a part of Minecraft's 15th anniversary celebration and the collaboration between Mojang Studios and MC Championship. The event ran from July 22, 2024, 17:00 UTC to August 4, 2024, 23:00 UTC.


== Lobbies ==


=== Main Lobby ===

Players will spawn into the map inside of a white, angular building on green and white carpets. Beside the player is an extra large cake under a bunting with the MCC crown, and left of that is an interactive button that says the name of the developers, Noxcrew. To the right are several posters promoting the Ender Cup. Outside of there the player will be greeted with a mock village, with the crown symbol built into the floor of the plaza, and Jens and Agnes on the opposite side from the spawn point.
Approaching the NPCs, they will introduce themselves and welcome players into the event, explaining the various things they can do, such as the minigames, Cave Mystery, and an option to summon collectible medals to lead the players to the Ace Race portal. From there the player can explore several small buildings within the village before heading off to other areas. To the left is a white house with a bridge attached to the spawn point, with a small azalea garden outside. Inside the house is a fireplace made of cobblestone stairs, several red presents, two bookshelves, a slice of cake, and a Lime Llama plush. To the right the player can enter the Sands of Time section of the lobby, however while crossing the small creek they might notice vines on the back of the house. Climbing these will enable the player to walk on the roof, and from there cross over onto the bridge and into a hidden room with a checkerboard floor and a pile of twenty coins.
To the right of the spawn point is another house, with a similar garden of rose bushes and a recycling bin. Inside will be a similar but slightly larger interior, with dark oak stairs for a couch, a larger fireplace with an unlit campfire, and a much bigger, uneaten cake. The exterior plaza is split into four paths, leading to each of the minigames' respective lobbies. The closest from the right house will be Ace Race, which is reached by crossing a large rainbow bridge into a floating castle. At the top, the player can either enter a Nether portal to the proper Ace Race lobby or explore around, discovering two secret areas. To the left, the player can make a drop and discover a jump boost pad; venturing down they will find another below, revealing a secret entrance on a giant flower build. To the right, players can find another jump pad, this time used for platforming upwards until the player can stop at a balcony level with a visible Blue Bat plush, before reaching another behind the sign for the minigame with Pink Parrot and Aqua Axoltol plushes.
Below the rainbow bridge, the player can find many other structures and visual gags. Close to the bridge is a tower flooded with water, with a soul sand elevator launching the player up to an elytra. Underneath the bridge itself are several giant flowers, each with different pads on them, and huge mushrooms with shroomlights. Beneath the castle is a small house, with a farm of pumpkins, a picnic between Yellow Yak, Purple Panda, and Lime Llama plushes, and a quaint interior with Orange Ocelot and Green Gecko plushies. There is what appears to be a bed made out of blocks, outlined with trapdoors. On the opposite side of the bridge is a lake, with a pier adorned with yellow and green flags, a usable bench, lily pads, an artificial boat ridden by Pink Parrot and Yellow Yak plushes, and a large build of a yellow rubber duck.

Between Ace Race and Sands of Time is another village. Above the village is a house on a cloud, but most apparent is a large restaurant, adorned with balloons of a chicken, a baby zombie, and the number 15 on an outer wall. The building is a lime green color, with visible awnings and a statue of a chicken on metal support beams. Both inside and out, there are several tables, with cakes and muffins littering them. Of note is the Food vendor NPC, who will give the player various foodstuff, as well as a second, non-interactable fry cook NPC behind them. Also inside is a small bathroom area, with a Purple Panda plush.
Outside Grid Runners is an obstacle course of sorts, with many small gimmicks for players to interact with. Immediately to the left of the entrance is a small parkour challenge where the player must cross through rings lined with stained glass above a pool of water. To the right is a small beach, with a stone rock, orange and white umbrellas, and the Pink Parrot plush positioned near yellow carpets and a tray of muffins. Before the portal itself will be what appears to be a volleyball course, with sand installed, a chainlink net, and two audiences made using "grimace blocks" with various green faces. The Grid Runners portal will again be a Nether portal, telegraphed with large arrows and the logo above.
Left of the Grid Runners section are two more buildings, the first being a lighthouse-like structure with a difficult parkour challenge involving platforming across trapdoors upwards to a reward[needs testing]. The second, larger building is a green and red tent filled with presents and plushes. More noteworthy is a large copper tube, marked with a large arrow and path of red carpet. Jumping in, the player will fall onto slime blocks, revealing a message from Jens who explains the player has found the Trophy Room. The room is littered with ice blocks, a thermostat build labeling the temperature at -18°, with a large, shut door behind the player. In the center is a large cake adorned with candles correlating to each of the available challenges; used will give players update on their records. Below is a question mark NPC, which when interacted with will explain the purpose of the room. To the back of the room is an exit in the form of another soul sand elevator, but to the right of that is a jump pad that leads the player to a hidden camera construct.
Right of Grid Runners is an expansive mountain, the peak of which can be reached using an elevator. However, below it is an equally expansive cave area, noticeable through a large sign of a shopping cart. Entering it, the player will find many amethyst buds, pointed stone, a lush cave environment, and a purple carpet over blocks of amethyst. At the end of that road is the Toy store, located inside a stone brick structure with visible braziers and blocks of netherite. At the top of the mountain, players will be propelled into a cherry grove, adorned with a stairway and posters of the Ender Cup. Venturing right, players can find more plushes eating cake near benches, but more importantly a cave area. Inside, the player will find the Puzzle Helper NPC, who gives hints on the Mystery of the Cave. Exiting the cave, the player will have several more options for elytra, but can also venture up to the peak of the mountain if desired. Along the way they will find many presents hidden behind the snow, a cabin housing two cake slices and a pile of 20 coins, and then finally the Pink Parrot plush at the peak, with the Blue Bat not far away.

The Sands of Time entrance is set inside of a large desert, with many sandstone pillars, packed mud paths, dripstone rocks, and a large hourglass structure. The portal is housed inside of a temple, primarily made of sandstone but with many gold, diamond, and netherite blocks present. The door itself is marked with Nether portal symbols, also used in Sands of Time, as well as decorated pots. Nearby the area is a stairway that leads to a picnic between a Lime Llama plush and a Cyan Coyote. An Orange Ocelot plush will also be present below, sitting alone on sandstone. Continuing from there, players will find another advertisement for the Ender Cup, this time in the form of an NPC on an End themed pyramid. Beside that is a very difficult parkour challenge involving balancing jumps over stained glass, leading into a cave guarded by an Aqua Axolotl where the player is rewarded with a pile of 30 coins[needs testing]. Also present here are the Hat and Mascot Hat stores, housed on a boardwalk adorned with a giant top hat, sandwiched around an area in the back with more cakes, including one with a crown.
Traveling from there, the player can enter Meltdown's area through a massive fossil into a badlands biome. Instead of a traditional path, players will be led down a modern road into a mechanical building erupting with magma blocks, with street lamps and cacti present. Before it is a smooth basalt geyser tied to a daily challenge, and next to that is a stage with pressure plates, standing them plays a song.


=== Ace Race ===

Ace Race's lobby is a small forest on various stable clouds. Players spawn in a marketplace with three tents. One is large and red, with yellow streamers, lanterns, presents, and benches, with a crowned cake in the center. Another is a small, magenta plush shop, holding various plushes, opposite to it is Seapeekay. Talking to him will teleport players to the starting line, and give a tutorial on the minigame. Behind him are several crates, rose bushes, and a large quartz gazebo with benches. Inside, Green Gecko and Lime Llama will be eating another cake beside a pot with flowering azalea leaves. Outside, players can see a large yellow hot air balloon.
Continuing from there, players can find three rainbow bridges. One is directly in front of the exit portal, and leads to the minigame; unique to this game players can walk directly into the race without a loading screen, and leave just as easily. The other is beside a hedge near the gazebo, with a diagonal shape. It leads into a large forest, with podzol throughout and many giant mushrooms. In the center is an old growth tree, partly hollowed out with a spiral staircase inside. At the top will be a mini-treehouse, filled with presents, Blue Bat and Yellow Yak plushes, soul lanterns, and a pile of twenty coins.

The third rainbow bridge is to the left of the portal, with another plush shop featuring Orange Ocelot and red carpet nearby, marked with MCC banners and a launch pad. Crossing this bridge leads to a windmill structure in a sunflower plains, with a picnic between various plushes facing the player as they enter. To the right is a well, leading into a hidden pond area with an Aqua Axolotl plush, cornflowers, tall grass, a lone candle, and a pile of twenty coins. Players can return to the surface through a nearby jump pad on a cloud, grasping several oxeye daisies, or alternatively jump across many smaller clouds back to the entrance.
In the windmill, players can find a small cornflower farm, as well as a computer chair and many chiseled bookshelves. Another pile of 20 coins will be behind them. Partly hidden is a ladder, leading to a room filled with presents and a single crate. Players can then reach out and go on the roof and blades of the windmill, however nothing is there to obtain.


=== Grid Runners ===

The lobby of Grid Runners is a large, futuristic stadium with an extensive strip of an environment. Players will spawn in the very front of the map, with a window looking over the minigame's arena, two large tubes in the ceiling, and banners for the 15th anniversary. Close to the window is Smajor, who will welcome players into the course, enter players into the queue, and give the tutorial. Alternatively, players can press a game controller NPC to enter the queue. To the left and right of the room are two doors, which lead to extensive locations outside the minigame for players to explore.
To the left. marked by a stray cardboard box, is a flight of stairs adorned with quartz pillars, pointed stone, Ender Cup posters, green buntings, and a decorated pot. At the end, players will be able to gaze into the starting area for Grid Runners. Lower than that is another floor, where players can find a build of a seemingly upset person on the ground, and a Green Gecko plush gazing at a leaking oxidized copper pipe. Back on the surface, players will pass by a bench, trash can, and finally a split in stairways.
At the bottom, players will find another Green Gecko plush, this time in an extensive lake with lily pads, reeds made of stained glass, large expanses of shade, azaleas, moss carpets, and plentiful andesite. As they swim across, players might notice several things above them, which can be found by traveling back to the first staircase. On the above floor, however, players can get a better look at these structures and eye two plushes, Aqua Axolotl and Green Gecko, seemingly placed to watch players.
Back at the front staircase, players will find wooden platforms below a Pink Parrot which can give them the leverage to jump onto several plateau platforms, passing an orange bodied person totem. After several jumps, players will reach a shattered road with a mock car being driven by a Yellow Yak, which will eventually lead to stone platforms suspended by oak fences with Blue Bats flying above, and at the end of those a very large collection of ladders. After climbing those, players will frolic through a small patch of grass, before having to jump over two log beams, ultimately reaching an area lined with copper blocks and a checkerboard stripe, in front of a cabin housing a torch and 20 coins.
If the player doesn't wish to engage with that section, they can also reach the cabin by walking all the way from the bottom floor and climbing a staircase.
Also at the end of the mini-course is a quartz stair bridge, which leads into a large red building adorned with the crown crest watching sessions of Grid Runners. Players entering here will arrive on the third floor, and encounter an audience of eleven totems with varying reactions, followed by an indoor stage with two sets of people, one with one of a kind star eyes. Between each room is a flight of stairs with open windows where players can continue to follow games; unique to the one between the stage room and a repeat bleacher room is an orange figure, who has seemingly tripped on a stair.
On the second floor is a third bleacher room, though now with a different, more quartz centric design with dark oak stair tables holding red cups. It is here there are what appear to be two figures speaking or arguing, and two separate figures holding a plate of cake. If the player desires, they can enter or exit the building from this room. To the right isn't a viewing area, but instead a display of a large build of a red present, with smaller ones below and multicolored concrete platforms suspended by chains. The next room is similar to the last, but now with a slouched over blue totem person overeating cake, beside a crowned cake block.
At the end of the second floor is an open door, which leads into another platforming challenge. Players must jump on and position themselves onto trapdoors suspended by chains attached to a glass ceiling. Of note are wither skulls used as platforms, and the ultimate reward being a pile of coins​[more information needed] on a gold block platform. If players fall, they will plummet into a pool of water. Advancing down to the bottom floor, players can access an alternate route to the platforming section. The first room of note is a hallway, with what appear to be two sets of parents and kids, yellow and purple. The yellow parent is making an "oof" face, while the child is agitated and holding a Purple Panda plush. The purple parent is using a happy face, while the child is making a different happy grimace with buck teeth. They have three Purple Pandas, an Orange Ocelot, and a Yellow Yak, implying the purple child is jealous of them.
Continuing forward the player will briefly return to the present room, before discovering steps into a basement of sorts, where there are two more people block configurations. One, purple, is raising an eyebrow, while the other, cyan, is holding a present, presumably gifting or proposing. On the right side of the building is a third platforming challenge, however this time not accessible from the audience building. Backtracking to the other entrance, players will pass a blue shirted figure watching the game alone in front of the third challenge, before reaching the challenge from its back. In this one, players will have to platform across iron bars and zombie heads suspended by spruce logs and planks, without any apparent reward. If desired, players can then return to the front of the lobby from here, encountering a similar staircase but with more inorganic scenery, save for bamboo and a Purple Panda, and three hidden Pink Parrots above.
At the very end of both paths is an outdoor bleacher area, with fewer people but more giant presents, and a build of a large, golden trophy. Players participating in the minigame will reach here upon completion, and can return to the front through two tubes, which can be seen spread throughout the map.


=== Sands of Time ===

Sands of Time's lobby is set in what appears to be a large sinkhole, filled with lush plants and ruins. Players spawn in view of HBomb94, who is standing under a metal tent, the game controller NPC not too far. Surrounding them both are several rows of sandstone pillars, leading up to a statue of an hourglass, similar to in the main lobby but made of chiseled sandstone. Viewable through several grates around the statue are active games of Sands of Time. A similar statue can be seen engraved above the exit portal.
Opposing the entrance are paths of deepslate nearby soul sand elevators, while the left side contains an immediate road up to a higher level, lined with torches. Not far above, players can find an andesite statue in the shape of a villager head, with gold eyes and a netherite block below. Climbing up sand blocks to the left of the totem leads to a broken bridge made of spruce slabs, spread across several of the aforementioned pillars. Platforming across this leads to the opposite side of the upper layer, with another diamond eyed statue featuring noticeable vines, and what appears to be a wagon.
Returning to the path and passing the elevator, players find another bridge, this one more abstract and made of multicolored concrete. Below it is the top of the elevator shaft. Going past that, players can find a person block surrounded by gold blocks, diamond blocks, a brazier, and an Orange Ocelot. After that is a stream emitting from an unreachable area, represented by a black concrete void, followed by a second elevator close to several crates. Climbing up those crates will allow the player to jump across many, reddish pillars, which can then be used to climb a tree before arriving at a hidden cabin. Inside are more crates, a metal barrel, a Pink Parrot, an Ender Cup poster, and a pile of 20 coins.
Continuing the path will briefly feature an L-shaped bridge covered in boxes and Cyan Coyote, before passing the totem and the end of the colored bridge. Directly behind that is a cave, filled with plants, moss, and plushes facing a crevice. Leaping or swimming down the hole will return the player to the bottom of the map, inside a deepslate cave. Nearby is a fenced tent, where players can peer into another area of Sands of Time, specifically the hiding spot of the Netherite chest.
Advancing back to the entrance, players can go behind the hourglass fixture, and find more holes into gameplay beside the second elevator. Players can then go into another cave, discovering a Green Gecko gazing into gameplay through several grates. Behind the elevator is another statue of a head, and near that are two tents with plushies sitting beside a crowned cake another window into the minigame, featuring what appears to be a shrine to a plant. Walking beyond that will lead players behind the first elevator, and discover a door similar to one found in Grid Runners. Further past that is an open room where many Yellow Yaks are watching an Orange Ocelot raise a Red Rabbit above a fire, seemingly intending to sacrifice it.


=== Meltdown ===

Meltdown's lobby is a large industrial facility, set in a badlands biome. Players spawn on carpets outside the exit portal lined with flags, with a parking lot to the left containing two cars, "driven" by Yellow Yak and Blue Bat plushes. Between those is a small building, with a fan, office chair, cardboard boxes, and a siren. To the right are two large palm trees, with another office chair and crate in-between them for uncertain reasons. Traveling further, players will find metal scaffolding up close to several windows.

The starting path is short, leading to an NPC of hannahxxrose standing on a stage, and another game controller NPC. Behind the controller is what appears to be a cyan logo​[more information needed] holding Aqua Axolotl and Cyan Coyote plushes, and behind that is a large window into an inside room. Players can enter the building from a door lined with glass, and are greeted with a massive complex. The nearest room to the entrance is a miniaturized cake store, filled with smooth quartz stair tables, three slices of cake, four recycling bins, many Ender Cup posters, and what appear to be vending machines. Inside the kitchen are shelves again made of smooth quartz, several more cake slices, a larger cake, smooth stone stair tables, and what appears to be a refrigerator.
The closest room to the eatery is a meeting room, with a misdrawn creeper face on the wall, and several plushes resting on a table below modern light fixtures. At the left end of the room is a giant television screen or blackboard, with the MCC crown on it. From there is a conveyer belt, placing Red Rabbits into presents, with a pile of coins visible at the end, despite not being immediately reachable. To access the coins, players must go up to a second floor, and duck into a closet where a hole behind a crate will lead into the assembly line, revealing the pile to be worth 20 coins.
Continuing on the second floor, players can watch games of Meltdown from behind blue glass surrounding the closet, which briefly lock upon the end of a game. Left of the glass is another eating area, this time only two tables with cyan umbrellas on top. At this point players will return to the entrance, identifiable not just by the entrance but by an unusable elevator marked with the crown symbol, and another flight of stairs. At the top lies a third floor, where players can find the other side of the elevator shaft, opened. Jumping down they can enter the elevator, claim 20 coins and exit through pressure plates opening the doors.
Further on the third floor is a platforming challenge, with players leaping across the umbrella, several light fixtures, and a hedge before claiming a pile of 30 coins on a large, cyan container of pink fluids, being emptied into a cauldron. Around the corner of this is a container with lava, which is also facing more gameplay windows on the third floor. Not far from there are multiple iron trapdoor platforms, which can be used to both reach the coins and lead to a new area, through a tube. Inside is a storage center, with cardboard boxes, shelves, and shipping containers. Climbing those will reveal a ladder, ultimately revealing a break area on the roof of the complex. There floor is lined with grass, cake, a beach chair and umbrella, azalea, and two tables with large cakes.

If players jump across hedges and over the umbrella they can find another area over the fencing, identifiable by metal crates. There players can walk across air vents, and stumble upon what appears to be plushes participating in a ritual. Climbing across vents and air conditioner, players can continue to a third area, containing a plane of diamond blocks and bridge using redstone torches. Climbing up the diamonds, players can jump onto a large pipe and onto a catwalk; if they miss the jump they can simply take a slightly longer stairway route outside the fences. The final area on top of the building is a helicopter pad, with an Orange Ocelot plush placed in front of a distant build of a quadcopter.


== Games ==
The server includes four games inspired by games from MC Championship.


=== Ace Race ===

Ace Race consists of a single-lap race which includes mechanics such as jump boost pads, speed boost pads, launch pads, and elytra gates. Shortcuts are scattered across the track.

The race begins once the player crosses under a gate in the lobby, marked with a lime green arrow with two speed boost pads visible. The path immediately splits, with one way being an overgrown red tulip above a jump boost pad, the other being a cloudy cave with visible hanging roots and a speed pad. The paths partly converge at an andesite rock before a soul soil pit, with stone blocks for the players to jump over.
From there the paths will again split, though to a more narrow degree. To the right is a surface level lush cave mine with stone stalactites, cobblestone, rails, and lanterns. To the left are several large andesite rocks covered in moss carpets, that can be reached with a launch pad and intersect with the tail of a block built dragon. Approaching the dragon from the mineshaft path will grant the player a shortcut via jump boost pad, while the bottom road leads to dirt paths and speed boost pads. At the top of both will be the first elytra, which can be used to glide through more overgrown flower structures.

At the end of the glide the player will cross through a castle made of cherry colored bricks, inside a pond with gravel and fallen trees. To the right is a jump pad that will let players race on top of the wall, while below they will need to cross two logs and up a cloud hill. More fantastical builds will become visible from here, such as hot air balloons, with the paths becoming much more chaotic and undefinable. Several of all pads will appear, as will slime blocks, before the paths again converge into a larger castle. Grabbing another elytra, players will leave the structure and glide into a forest, with giant mushrooms and oak-like trees.
To the right of the forest entrance is a jump boost pad that leads to a mossy cliff, where the player can take a risky jump. On the left the player can use a jump boost pad to leap onto a giant tree stump onto a launch pad into a hollowed log over more soul soil, leading to another pit similar to the first. Players can then either manually climb up a steep hill or jump to the top from a pad onto a speed boost. Another wide path with many pads follow, with a visible giant bee nest, bee, and more slime blocks. After more platforming, there will be another elytra segment, now set in a mycelium filled, basalt delta-like area shrouded by a giant rain cloud.

Gliding by basalt spikes and jack o' lanterns, the player will have to dodge water and dead trees, ultimately arriving at a gate marked with the MCC crown symbol and soul fire. Now the race will be surrounded with gold blocks and chiseled quartz, with another jump pad helping the player onto a wall. Passing by many blue decorated pots, the player will ultimately reach a final wall colored like a rainbow, before making a drop right back to the start of the track.


=== Grid Runners ===
Grid Runners is a game first featured during MINECON Earth 2018 which consists of a puzzle race. In this version, a group of four players must enter and complete 4 rooms featuring different challenges: "Defeat the Beasts", "Copy the Painting", "Bake a Cake", and "Sprint". Each room lasts for one minute. When the one minute is over, a door to the next room is open.

Defeat the Beasts

Players are given an iron sword to fight waves of enemies. Enemy waves are randomly chosen and can also be chosen back-to-back. The waves that can be chosen are: one husk and multiple zombies, one stray and multiple skeletons, one stray and multiple bogged, one witch and multiple pillagers, multiple small slimes, one blaze and multiple small magma cubes, and one breeze and multiple bogged. Players are awarded some​[more information needed] or 10 coins when they kill an enemy or defeat a wave of enemies.

Copy the Painting

Players are given a paintbrush. In the room, there are two canvases on the left and right, and the players need to copy the painting shown by using their paintbrush to dip it into buckets of paint, namely black, brown, yellow, red, green, blue, purple, and white. Then they can shoot the paint onto the canvases to complete a painting. The aim does not need to be precise. The players are awarded 3 coins when correctly filling a color-block and 10 coins when a painting is copied. The paint balls have a certain​[more information needed] radius. If a paint ball falls to the ground, it leaves a mark.

Bake a Cake

The players are given wheat crops that regrow quickly without being replanted, sugar canes that regrow quickly and drops sugar when broken, chicken that lay eggs quickly, and three cows and a chest full of buckets. The players need to collect the ingredients (eggs, sugar, wheat, milk) and submit them by using them at the cake baker at the center. The cake baker can only contain 48 of one kind of ingredient at a time.​[more information needed] The players are awarded 10 coins when a cake is baked.

Sprint

Players need to sprint and jump over multiple platforms to the finish line.
This course looks like the kelp sprint tile in Grid runners pro.


=== Sands of Time ===

Sands of Time is a dungeon filled of traps, obstacles, and mobs in which players must collect as much gold as they can before time runs out. Players can increase the remaining time by collecting sand scattered through the dungeon.
When the player enters the dungeon, the timer is up to 2 minutes and the player is given a stone sword a leather tunic, a pair of leather pants, and a pair of leather boots. Throughout the dungeon, the player may find an iron chestplate, a pair of iron leggings and a pair of iron boots as upgrades, as well as sand. Each sand collected adds 10 seconds to the timer.
The player may collect gold by collecting coin piles scattered on the ground (either piles of 5, 20 or 30 coins) and unlocking chests. There are iron, gold, diamond and netherite chests, each providing 50, 100, 200, and 400 coins respectively. Each type of chest requires a corresponding key to be opened. The player can also collect gold by defeating mobs: zombies and spiders drop 1 coin upon death; husks, pillagers, and skeletons drop 2 coins; and evokers drop 3 coins.
There is a total of 70 sand blocks, 5 iron chests, 2 gold chests, 1 diamond chest and 1 netherite chest.


=== Meltdown ===

Meltdown is a PVE game where players must survive through seven rooms filled with monster spawners.
The players are given a freezing bow with Infinity whose arrows can freeze monsters. Once a mob is frozen, the player has 10 seconds to hit it to kill it before the ice melts and the mob is free. They receive 3 coins by doing so. They can also collect coins from coin piles (either 5 or 10 coins) scattered across each room.
Players spend 1:45 minutes in rooms (with the exception of the spawning room, the first room and last room in which players spend 0:20, 1:30 and 1:50 minutes respectively). 30 seconds before the time runs out, the door leading to the next room opens. The current room starts to melts, and players have 15 seconds to make it to the next room. After these 15 seconds, the current room goes into critical phase and players start losing 1HP every two seconds.
As for the spawning room, the meltdown phase starts as soon as the game begins and players have 10 seconds to make it to the first room before the spawning room goes into critical phase.
The blazes found here behave differently. They do not shoot fireballs and only attack with melee. They can also melt the ice surrounding other mobs on contact and will actively pathfind towards frozen mobs to unfreeze them. However, they can still be frozen themselves.
Each room has different sets of mobs:


== Pads and gates ==
Around the main lobby and Ace Race, players can use pads to gain an effect or get launched while elytra gates give elytra.


== Stores ==
In the main lobby, there are four stores that sell cosmetics for coins. The mascot hat and the hat shops are located in the corner of the Main Lobby between the Meltdown and Sands of Time areas, the toy store is located between the Meltdown and Grid Runners areas, and the food store is located between the Ace Race and Sands of Time areas. Outside of every store are recycling bins, which when used will refund an item.


=== Mascot Hats ===


=== Hats ===


=== Toys ===


=== Food ===


== Challenges ==
Players can complete challenges to earn exclusive character creator items. 14 of them can be obtainable in any order, except for the Mystery Cave Challenge.
Main C


=== Mystery Cave Challenge ===
During the first week of the event, every day at 5 PM UTC, a new hieroglyph appears in the mystery cave located above the toy shop. Next to the hieroglyphs is the Puzzle Helper, a NPC describing them. On July 29, hints were given by the puzzle helper to help players deciphering each hieroglyph.
Players can complete these challenges at any time during the event after they appear in the mystery cave.


=== Minecraft Experience Cape ===
Guests who have completed the all of the 15 challenges, they will receive the MC Championship Cape. It was automatically be available in Bedrock Edition which later then added to Java Edition.


== Sounds ==


== Videos ==


== Trivia ==
The name of the world is "french_toast". This is a tradition by Noxcrew to name the project after breakfast foods.
Throughout the map, there are many hard to reach or obscure locations that the plushies can be seen in, often doing some sort of visual gag. For example, at the peak of the mountain in the main lobby is a pink parrot, and on a cliff near the Sands of Time entrance is a lime llama and cyan coyote eating a cake under an umbrella.
Some MC Championship elements are referenced throughout lobbies. This includes the "Cliff" map from TGTTOS (To Get To The Other Side). In the Grid Runners lobby, colored bridges referencing either TGTTOS or Sky Battle in the Sands of Time lobby, note blocks tuned to reference the "Decision Dome" theme from the MC Championship OST bellow the Grid Runners portal, and a parkour referencing the Parkour Warrior lobby from MC Championship Island near the trophy room.
In most mini-games on the server, players are put in Adventure mode to disallow them from breaking blocks. However, Grid Runners requires the players to collect crops during Bake a Cake. To allow for that, the players are put in Survival mode, and an inaccessible platform made out of deny blocks is placed underneath the lobby instead, with holes for the blocks that are supposed to be breakable.
In the announcement article, the release time accounts for DST, even though the timezones are described as non-DST. The closing time doesn't account for DST and the timezones are described as non-DST.
During the event, it was estimated that "a collective 440 years" was spent, consisting of several notable achievements. This included:
35 million games played
3 billion coins spent
976,939 yellow yak beanies, the most of any
4,574,418 painted blocks, 259 per minute
15 million laps in Ace Race
16 million mobs frozen in Meltdown, 10,148 per minute
16 million games of Sands of Time, approximately 32% escaping
39 years spent in Sands of Time
8,282,151 cake slices eaten
6,515,047 gifts given
One million disco balls used


== Gallery ==


=== Promotional images ===


=== Screenshots ===


==== Hub ====


==== Ace Race ====


==== Grid Runners ====


==== Sands of Time ====


==== Meltdown ====


=== Character Creator items ===


=== Renders ===


==== NPCs ====


==== Blocks ====


== See also ==
Grid Runners, a Marketplace map featuring the first incarnation of Grid Runners
Grid Runners Pro, a sequel to the map also made for MC Championship


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==