Minecraft typically refers to the game in general. It may also refer to:


== Editions ==

Java Edition: the original edition for Windows, macOS, and Linux.
Bedrock Edition: the edition for Windows, ChromeOS, Android, iOS, iPadOS, Fire, Xbox One, Xbox Series X|S, Nintendo Switch, PS4, and PS5, under the name Minecraft.
Minecraft Education: the edition for classrooms.
China Edition: the edition for mainland China.
Minecraft 4k: the under 4 kibibytes version of the game made for the 2010 Java 4K contest.
MinecraftEdu: the discontinued edition for classrooms.
Legacy Console Edition: the discontinued edition for various consoles (Xbox 360, Xbox One (legacy version), PS3, PS4 (legacy version), PS Vita, PS TV, Wii U, and Nintendo Switch (legacy version)).
Pi Edition: the discontinued edition for the Raspberry Pi.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition: the discontinued edition for the New Nintendo 3DS/2DS systems.


== Other games ==
Demo Mode: the Minecraft demo versions.
Minecraft: Story Mode: the narrative-driven video game.
Minecraft: Story Mode - Season Two: the sequel to Minecraft: Story Mode.
Minecraft Earth: a discontinued augmented reality (AR) mobile game spin-off.
Minecraft Dungeons: an action-adventure role-playing game spin-off.
Minecraft Dungeons II: an action-adventure role-playing game spin-off. The sequel to Minecraft Dungeons.
Minecraft Dungeons Arcade: an arcade adaptation of Minecraft Dungeons.
Minecraft Legends: an real-time action strategy game spin-off.
Minecraft Blast: an tile-matching puzzle video game spin-off.


== Miscellaneous ==
Minecraft (franchise): the Minecraft franchise.
Minecraft.net: The official website for Minecraft.
Minecraft Launcher: the game downloader and launcher for Java Edition and one of the game  downloaders and launchers for Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Dungeons.
Minecraft Dungeons Launcher: was one of the game downloaders and launchers for Minecraft Dungeons.
.minecraft: the Java edition game data folder.
Minecraft (song): the soundtrack name for one of the music tracks in the game.
Minecraft 2.0: a joke update made for April Fools 2013.
Minecraft: The Story of Mojang, a 2012 documentary created by 2 Player Productions about the history and development of Mojang Studios
A Minecraft Movie: a film adaptation of the game that was released on April 4, 2025.
Minecraft: an advancement by getting a crafting table in your inventory.
Minecraft: Official Magazine: the official magazine of Minecraft.
Minecraft (Dark Horse Comics): a graphic novel series based on the video game.
Minecraft Hour of Code: a tutorial designed to introduce the player to programming logic.
Minecraft books: a series of guidebooks for Minecraft.
Minecraft Plus!: a screensaver app and website for an April Fools 2021 joke.
Minecraft (Step into Reading series): a children's book series based on the video game.
Minecraft: Builders & Biomes: a board game published by Mojang Studios and Ravensburger.
Minecraft Card Game: a card game published by Mojang Studios and Mattel Games.