Minecraft LIVE 2024 was a livestreamed, pre-recorded event that was held on September 28, 2024 at 17:00 UTC that revealed new Minecraft features and other news. This was the first Minecraft LIVE event to have no community vote.


== News ==
Minecraft LIVE 2024 revealed the pale garden biome, the creaking mob, and the Bundles of Bravery drop for Minecraft, which includes bundles for both editions and Hardcore mode on Bedrock Edition. It also revealed more information about A Minecraft Movie and Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue.
On September 24, the show's minecraft.net page was accidentally switched to the version supposed to be shown after the livestream for a few hours, leaking the content of the show.


== Summary ==


=== Intro ===
The stream opens on an animated intro sequence of several mobs dancing, beginning with an armadillo floating in water while a frog sits on its shell, and then jumps off before trying to eat a chicken. The chicken walks onto an enderman's head, which then teleports over to a llama, which spits on the enderman. The llama watches as the enderman teleports away, and is then knocked back by a goat into a pool below the show's logo.
The video segues to Mojang's headquarters, where Lydia Winters welcomes the viewer to the show. A montage of the interior follows, showing several unique fixtures and areas, such as the front lobby, a statue of the anatomy of a creeper, a mural in the cafeteria, and a statue of the muddy pig. As Lydia promises news on content, she thanks the community for their dedication. She reminisces about the Official Minecraft Trailer, pointing out that it was created by a fan, Vareide.
After a replay of the trailer finishes, Jens Bergensten appears. He lists off important events of the year, such as the Summer Celebration and Ender Cup. He then starts to reminisce himself, thinking back to his early days as a programmer when Mojang had a far smaller office. He begins to lecture about the growing scope of the Minecraft universe, explaining that many interpretations of the lore have been made, and many more will follow, thanks to the players' own imagination. Several examples are given, such as Minecraft Dungeons and Minecraft Legends, before recounting his experiences working on A Minecraft Movie. As he remembers, he traveled all the way to New Zealand and was amazed to see the game's world brought to life on set.
Jens proceeds to explain the change in development, addressing the new practice of game drops over a "yearly summer update." Citing the Armored Paws drop as precedent, he promises to release content more regularly and on a less strict schedule. Suddenly, a bee flies into the screen, followed by another montage, this time showing various Mojang staff members working on the game. One employee carries a laptop, while another uses a laptop. Someone taps a copy machine again and again, while someone eats in the cafeteria. Someone is handed a cup of coffee, and then sips from it. The employee using the copier then taps the sides of the machine, annoyed. A splash potion emerges from the bottom of the screen.


=== Bundles of Bravery ===
Agnes Larsson welcomes viewers to the segment, and announces they will be working on two drops in the coming months. Their first, Bundles of Bravery, focuses on adding bundles, and adding hardcore mode to Bedrock Edition. Stephen Scott appears to elaborate on the feature, equating hardcore to the First Night. He then explains that there's a special toggle on the Create New World screen to play hardcore, and notes he likes the detail of a border on the world icon. From there he explains some of the challenges found in hardcore mode, such as breaking routines and being unable to make many mistakes.
The segment transitions to explain bundles, with Matthew Gatland hosting and narrating over footage of Kai using bundles. He gives the example of early builds having a strip mine fill the player's inventory with cobblestone, as opposed to newer builds having a bigger variety that clog the inventory. From there he explains that they watched various streams of survival gameplay, and took pictures of their inventories to use as data. He then shows off some other features, such as dyeing and being used to share items. However, the stream is soon cut off by static, transitioning into Villager News.


=== Villager News ===

The short opens much like a traditional episode of the show, with villagers mumbling a theme song while holding up signs. Villager No. 5 appears, explaining the interruption as a warning for a "monster sighting." Switching over to Villager No. 9, several villagers of different professions have united to investigate claims by Villager No. 15 of a creature lurking in the woods, which they accuse him of lying about and tease over. In an effort to debunk his fears, the mob of villagers plan on investigating the forest, but are quickly stopped by a witch. Emerging from a hut, she warns that none have "those who enter there never return here," quickly clarifying that this means the path is just the entrance and there's a separate exit.
The villagers make their way into the forest, Villager No. 9 requesting the others keep an eye out for "monsters." He remarks "of course, we know there's no such thing," only for the others to start bringing up established Minecraft characters they consider monsters, such as zombies, skeletons, hoglins, and Steve, which Villager No. 15 asserts look nothing like what he saw. When asked what it looks like, he says it was behind a tree. Villager No. 31 asks if anyone else feels like they're being watched, and vanishes when they're not looking, which Villager No. 9 doesn't believe in spite of their drops being clearly present. The other villagers agree with the skepticism and move on.
As the others carry forward, they come to the conclusion there is nothing in the woods, and pledge to make their way back home. However, they realize they are now lost in the forest, and seek Villager No. 47 for help, only to realize he's suffered a similar fate to No. 31. They hear the creaking creak nearby, as more villagers perish one by one, No. 9 acting oblivious to the very real danger before running away "for unrelated reasons." The camera is dropped on the floor, as the cameraman happens upon the creaking behind a tree and dies. Back in the studio, Villager No. 5 shows concern for No. 9, begging for a response from him, as the creaking pushes forward.


=== A Minecraft Movie ===
As the feed returns "back to Minecraft LIVE," another montage inside of Mojang Studios is shown, before ending on a flock of parrots swarming around as Vu Bui appears. He reminisces about how long it's taken to develop A Minecraft Movie, and thanks the staff involved for their hard work, transitioning into a behind-the-scenes look at the film presented by producer Torfi Frans Olafsson and director Jared Hess. They affirm that the film had been in development for over a decade, finally coming down to New Zealand to film and showing many of the props. The choice to use live action is explained as a way to give the film a unique identity compared to other interpretations of the game. They thank the production staff for their commitment to the aesthetic, singling out Grant Major.
From there, Jared Hess addresses the name of the film, and explains it's meant to represent the film being a unique take on Minecraft. He introduces characters such as Henry, Garrett, and Steve, describing the former as a representation of individuality and modding, and the latter as a one-of-a-kind take on what Steve could be. Jack Black is mentioned as being a huge fan of the game, and was ecstatic to bring his interpretation of the character to life, even playing the game between shoots. From there Torfi Frans Olafsson discusses how older versions of the game had a sense of mystery, due to the lack of a recipe book, and explain Garrett's character as a washed up video game champion. This leads into a clip from the movie, in which Steve teaches Henry and Garrett how to use a Crafting Table, to which Garrett attempts to make an Iron Sword but ends up creating a failed recipe (two buckets connected by a chain).
Once the clip ends, Torfi Frans Olafsson goes into their creative process behind the altered art style, detailing how they started by figuring out how a crafting table should look and settled on using the tools on the side to actually craft the items. From there he explains how they figured out the scale of items and blocks, respecting the original game while ensuring it would be practical for a film. As they show footage of the final day of shooting, Torfi Frans Olafsson and Jared Hess sign off, saying they'll "see [the viewers] in the Overworld!" followed by the reveal of the film's bee design. At this point, Vu returns to mention the film is still in production, working closely alongside Mojang to finish the film, and transitions into another montage inside Mojang.


=== Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue ===
Lydia Winters returns, asking the viewer if they ever wanted to "venture through Minecraft biomes in real life, introducing Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue. The stream moves over to Olivier, showing him getting makeup done inside of the experience, and establishes their immediate goal was authenticity to the game. Many different areas within the game are shown, including snowy plains, bamboo jungle, ocean monument, and forest. Sara appears, explaining the story of a village being attacked by zombies, followed by the show's method of immersion, 17 foot projection walls that can be interacted with using the Orb of interaction. After listing off various ways to play the game, she highlights immersion, with footage of two players entering a Nether portal, and confirms the attraction will open in several locations after its unveiling in Dallas, Texas. A clutch of chickens are then hatched from thrown eggs.


=== The Pale Garden ===


=== Outro ===


== Videos ==

More videos relating to Minecraft LIVE 2024 can be found here.


=== Announcement ===

The event was announced in a video which was uploaded to the official Minecraft YouTube Channel on September 18, 2024, concerning several mobs teleporting into a room and dancing to the remix version of Minecraft Live 2022's Announcement Trailer music: "Frog Stroll".


== Trivia ==
A running gag throughout the stream is the use of in-game sound effects used to enhance or jest mundane actions. These include the sounds of a chest opening while someone opens a miniature refrigerator, sounds of eating playing while a developer has their lunch break, employees swearing in villager mumbles, the sounds of a Nether portal playing while someone leaves a purple tinted room, and a trash can making lava sounds as if it were burning the disposables.
The said miniatured fridge featured in the background of the first segment with Lydia and other segments is an old furniture that Mojang conserves from the first office Mojang had back in 2012.
The creeper statue featured prominently in the tour of Mojang Studios was a prop created originally to decorate the Old Mojang Studios Offices but also brought to use on MINECON 2012, it is also a reference to a design of its anatomy originating early into the franchise, appearing in media such as Minecraft Dungeons and Minecraft: Mobestiary. The statue was refurbished and restored, now being used to decorate Mojang's office.
This is the second Minecraft LIVE stream to feature Villager News as, prior to appearing in this stream, another Villager News episode was created for MINECON Live 2019 to promote the Village & Pillage update.
This is the last Minecraft LIVE to be celebrated annually, rather than biannually.


== Gallery ==


=== Official artwork ===


=== Screenshots ===


=== Mojang screenshots ===


=== A Minecraft Movie ===


=== Minecraft Experience ===


=== Villager News ===


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==