The Minefinity Gauntlet is a powerful artifact under the possession of Jonathan Minecraft, sought after for its reality altering capabilities.


== Appearance ==
The gauntlet is a 46 glove, slightly larger than the arm of a player. It is primarily a silverish white, with six dots on the front, presumably gems.


== Powers and abilities ==
The Minefinity Gauntlet is said to be incredibly powerful, being able to "erase half of Minecraft" with a snap of the fingers. In spite of this, it cannot actually be used within the Overworld, due to player models lacking opposable fingers, and thus cannot snap.


== Biography ==
At some point in the past, Jonathan Minecraft had either created or found the Minefinity Gauntlet through unknown means.
During a campaign to take over Minecraft, Jonathan Minecraft tricked Narrator and M.A.R.I.L.L.A. into assembling a team of mobs, apparently powerful enough to defeat him. Using the power of Mega-Mobbo, he successfully killed all three, however he found little gratification as his enemies had forgotten who he was by the encounter. Infuriated, he dropped down to confront his nemeses himself, bringing out the gauntlet with the threat of erasing them from existence. However, M.A.R.I.L.L.A. was keen to point out that he lacked fingers, and thus could not actually utilize the destructive power of the gauntlet. Defeated, Jonathan threw the gauntlet away without hesitation, it killing a rabbit in the process.


== Trivia ==
The Minefinity Gauntlet is a parody of the Infinity Gauntlet, a fictional artifact featured prominently in the mythology of Marvel Comics. It is a device created to harness the powers of Infinity Gems, primordial crystals representing the concepts of Mind, Power, Reality, Soul, Space, and Time.
Usually, the Infinity Gems are depicted as only working in their universe of origin, which fits with the Minefinity Gauntlet being inoperable inside of Minecraft. Within the context of the story, it logically would have been made outside of the game's reality.
The Infinity Gauntlet, as well as its frequent wearer Thanos, previously appeared in the Marvel Guardians of the Galaxy Skin Pack.
Similar gauntlets previously appeared in Minecraft: Story Mode, such as the Prismarine Gauntlet. The apparent reality manipulation powers could also be considered similar to the Command Block.


== Navigation ==