Minecraft LIVE – March 2026 was a Minecraft LIVE event that took place on March 21 at 17:00 UTC. It featured information about the Chaos Cubed game drop, and revealed the release date for the Tiny Takeover drop. It also unveiled Minecraft World, Minecraft Experience: Moonlight Trail, and announced Minecraft Dungeons II.


== Livestream ==

Other versions

"[Audio Descriptions] Minecraft LIVE - March 2026"
"[ASL] Minecraft LIVE - March 2026"
"[BSL] Minecraft LIVE - March 2026"


=== Emojis ===
The YouTube livechat had 3 custom emojis.


== Summary ==
The stream opens on a panning animation, beginning in a village, flying past several characters, including Agnes Larsson's skin, and a skin that resembles Jeb, and villagers, before seguing to several other locations. This includes a bridge in the Nether, going through a portal into a cherry grove with a pagoda, underground where a creeper blows up Steve, a shipwreck that Noor and Zuri travel towards on nautiluses, and finally a mangrove swamp, where the event logo is situated. From there the show cuts to several areas of Mojang Studios, with several baby mobs superimposed over the footage. Jens Bergensten introduces himself, and welcomes the viewer into the show, remarking on the community's interest in Tiny Takeover. He segues to a tease for the next update, promising an "entirely new mechanic," and thanks the players for their continued dedication to the game. He elaborates that they have more than just game news this time, teasing an apparently well kept secret he's not meant to mention, before moving on to the first announcement.


=== Multiplayer ===

An axolotl swims onto the screen, as Laura Taranto sits down to discuss Minecraft's malleability; that there's no incorrect way to play it. As multiple players hang out, she talks about how precious multiplayer is, before Noor jumps into a river. In order to make it easier, they announce parties, a feature that can allow for groups of players that can work together and play on multiple worlds. This segues into a montage of various featured servers, including the already released SoulSteel and Mob Maze, and the then-upcoming Treasure Hunt, an unnamed server by Starfish Studios, and Genwars. The segment ends with the huff of an uncraftable splash potion.


=== Tiny Takeover ===
As the smoke clears, a Mojang employee walks through a hall, parodying the first person perspective of a game while holding cooked chicken. After stopping, they eat the chicken twice. The scene cuts again to a different location, where a presumably different employee is holding an emerald, and trades with an employee for six bread, making a villager mumble in the process. A ghastling flies onto the screen, transitioning to Agnes Larsson.
She recaps the new features of the Tiny Takeover game drop, pointing out its similar goal to Spring to Life. She talks about her satisfaction with the chick design, praising its personality showing through the downsized design. She then mentions the baby turtle design, which was originally the smallest mob in the game, an idea she had herself. Her next train of thought is name tags, which received a crafting recipe, and can allow players to form bonds with all of their mobs. She finally announces that the update would release on March 24th of that year, and calls on other developers to discuss the project.
Jasper Boerstra appears and says the name of the update. Felix Jones and Sarah Boeving start listing off all the mobs they had to update, ending on the baby villager, standing on orange terracotta. Jasper elaborates that the update has hundreds of new textures, Sarah going into the process of giving them distinct personalities, after they had originally been downscaled adults. Felix highlights the community's love for these new designs, highlighting a build where chickens would be used as popcorn kernels and pop with age. They then start talking about the sound design, several employees doing impressions, before cutting to Sandra Karlsson on field duty recording real animals. She talks about the trials and tribulations of this task, animals often not making noise on command, but luckily there were handlers to help. She recounts her experiences with a cow whisperer, and the time she got bitten by pigs.The next topic discussed is the golden dandelion, which is a method of keeping baby mobs permanently young. As it turns out, this was a feature added due to frequent requests from fans, after Mojang had similar issues. Felix explains its recipe using gold nuggets, before a splash potion of healing transitions the stream to a cinematic.
Noor, Steve, and Ari get startled by the ground shaking, the second thinking a giant chick is coming. Realizing it was a regular chick, the trio lose their balance as a bunch of various other baby mobs suddenly rush out toward them. The scene then shifts to Noor's house where two chicks of different variants jump on Noor lying on a bed as a piglet stands near them. Kai then enters the house trying to lure a puppy and a kitten who run into the house. In a cave, Ari mines some diamond ore and gets overwhelmed by the baby mob army alongside baby zombies and Steve, all flowing out of the hole Ari made while mining. In the Nether, Makena holds a baby strider before getting startled by the baby mob army dropping them along. In a jungle where Ari and Efe set camp, the two raise a group of baby pandas that suddenly grow up and startle them as they try to feed them a golden dandelion. At the beach, the baby mob army run at a baby turtle who struggles to run along. The scene then shifts to a desert pyramid where Zuri and Alex encounter a bunch of baby husks and a baby zombie villager, before moving to a house where Alex gets overwhelmed by an abundant flow of chicks. In plains, Noor and Kai notice the baby army coming, and Kai falls to the ground as a piglet runs to them, dropping their golden dandelion.


=== Physical experiences ===
Torfi Frans Ólafsson appears, and talks about their commitment to the franchise, always wanting to find new ways to expand the Minecraft world. After a joke about the Nether roof, he discusses Minecraft Experience: Villager Rescue, which had launched the last year and would soon come to more locations, including Herning, Singapore, Mexico City, and Chicago. He then announces that Villager Rescue would only be the first of many Experiences, the second being Minecraft Experience: Moonlight Trail, which will be held in real forests and rolled out similarly. The third announcement of the segment is one acknowledged as a long-time request: the theme park Minecraft World. This cuts to an animation of Steve and Alex walking in a void, before an enderman builds an arch and allays carry the logo. An illager runs around with an iron axe, while two others are killed by an iron golem. The wither shoots at multicolored sheep, while multiple types of piglins emerge from a Nether portal.
As the feed returns to live action, the location and concept art of the park are shown. Daisy Mercedes announces several of the park's features, including the ability to meet mobs, visit the world's largest store of Minecraft merchandise, and the first ever minecart roller coaster. Filip Keatley Thoms discusses the creative process, showing the park being designed using in-game blocks. It's then revealed that several YouTube creators were brought on as supervisors for the project, "evolving [their] thinking and take stuff to the next level." They elaborate that they gave several proactive questions, such as what Minecraft tastes like and what odors populate the Overworld. They conclude the segment with a promise it'll open in 2027 in Chessington World of Adventures, before a reprise of the cinematic, rewinding the sequence until it turns to Steve, Alex, and an axolotl in the iron golem's arms. The wither bumps into the camera, as a trader llama leans in, a nitwit leaps into the air, and a second nitwit bonks the screen upside down, giving a closeup of its nose.


=== Chaos Cubed ===

As feathers fall from the screen, another live action sequence takes place, with an employee holding a bed and then placing it between several developers, visibly confusing them. The next shot shows a refridgerator filled with milk buckets, which the employee drinks from to extinguish hunger. Another cut ends to an abrupt death from a cactus being carried up the stairs. Baby bees cue the next transition, as Agnes returns and announces the next drop, set to delve into the sandbox nature of the game. She eases the announcemtn with a pan through a desert into a cave, talking about the unpredictability of spelunking, before revealing a new cave biome: the sulfur caves.
Daniel Jansson begins his piece by talking about the unique color palette of sulfur and cinnabar. Marco Ballabid talks about what makes the biome different from other caves as Sunny and Zuri begin placing torches throughout, collecting several blocks to construct a base out of polished sulfur and cinnabar. Agnes highlights that they come with "full blocksets," she considers pretty. The inspirations behind the biome are discussed, such as hot springs, which reveals the addition of potent sulfur boiling water. The science behind this block is explained, as both players get nauseous. The next announcement is the sulfur cube, which is described as having an ambiguous expression and unlike any other mob up to that point.
Its feature is explained as being able to absorb blocks, demonstrated by Kai dropping an oak log by it, followed by several others such as stone and stripped jungle log. Its behavior is elaborated on, gravitating towards dropped blocks, before stopping completely and reacting to a punch from Zuri. This is meant to resemble a ball. Agnes highlights different blocks cause varying effects, such as ice making it slippery, wool light, and blocks of iron heavy. The next demonstration is several minigames, such as ball games, dunk tanks, parkour, and even traps. From there it's established to split like a slime, but unlike those can grow up into a full sulfur cube.
Before the segment concludes, the name of the drop is revealed: Chaos Cubed. Several baby mobs are thrown at the screen as the scene ends.


=== Minecraft Dungeons II ===

Mojang announces a sequel to Minecraft Dungeons. 
The video begins in the Camp, as a fox hunts a rabbit, and a narrator recounts the story of Minecraft Dungeons. The camera pans over the marketplace, with all the villagers happy and living their lives, before a brief glitch into carnage. In spite of the camp burning, the narrator briefly appears to dismiss it before conceding things go sour, on a shot of the mission select table slashed in two and melting. As a wolf howls, the camera pans down into the sea, into a lush cave, into the deep dark, and ends in an ancient city, as the portal begins to show signs of activation.


=== The Deep Dig ===

In this Deep Dig, Jens, Vu, Agnes, and some social creators preview the new game drop: Chaos Cubed. Plus, they show the features for the game drop: Tiny Takeover.


== Quotes ==


== Videos ==


=== Announcement trailer ===

The event was announced in a video which was uploaded to the official Minecraft YouTube channel on March 10, 2026.


== Promotions ==

On March 18, a video promotion for Minecraft LIVE starring Vu Bui, similar in style and tone to a Minecraft Monthly episode, was released on the Minecraft YouTube channel.


=== Guest announcement ===
On March 18, guest appearances by hannahxxrose and peqitw were announced on Twitter and TikTok. Additional guest appearances by camman18, bekyamon, and KurtJMac were announced on TikTok.
Simultaneously, guest content creators promoted the live on their social media channels.


=== Feature teasers ===

On March 19, various teasers were published on the official Instagram, YouTube, TikTok, WhatsApp, Discord and Twitter channels.


== Trivia ==
During the transition from featured servers to Tiny Takeover, an outdated texture for uncraftable splash potions is used.


=== Errors ===
During the Minecraft World cinematic, two different pillager can be seen using an axe, seemingly confused for a vindicator.
Later in the segment, several dyed sheep can be seen with white wool, which had already been fully phased out by the time of the stream.


== Gallery ==


=== Promotional images ===


=== Production images ===


== References ==


== Navigation ==