MINECON Earth 2017 was a 90-minute interactive livestream, that took place on November 18, 2017, and filmed at Atlanta, Georgia, USA inside Center Stage (Atlanta). It featured Lydia Winters and Will Arnett as the hosts.


== Community events ==

Announced at the same time were official community events, hosted by community-led partners such as Minefaire, Minevention and Blockfest. These partners (along with many more to come) had gained the official stamp of approval to throw authentic in-person Minecraft experiences. Attendees got to meet their favorite YouTubers and streamers, compete in tournaments and costume contests, see unique content and more.


== Event ==


=== Pre-show ===
Before the formal event began, Julia Hardy and Tyler Pappas welcome the viewer in, promising great announcements. From there, they segue into a montage of various YouTubers demonstrating then-new features, including fireworks boosting elytra, parrots, llamas, Minecraft: Story Mode - Season Two, add-ons, and the World of Color Update. Once the montage concludes, the content creators OMGchad and TrueTriz about the preceding reel, talking about their favorite recent additions, such as the Marketplace and the Better Together Update. Noticing the time, OMGchad and TrueTriz decide to leave, as Julia asks Tyler what he knows about the main show.
They expect Jens Bergensten to make an appearance and announce new features, before mentioning the Mob Vote. Julia then reveals they were told there was a "musical thing," of which Tyler will be making an appearance in, "in tap dancing shoes and a smile." Defensively, Tyler says they weren't supposed to mention that yet. Suddenly, the YouTuber Aureylian, and talks about her personal experiences with previous MINECONs, mentioning her child was very excited for the new features every year. From there they relate their struggles dealing with non-disclosure agreements, before unveiling a trailer for Minecraft Mini-Series, and then a commercial for LEGO Minecraft.
Once the reveal concludes, an employee from Telltale Games arrives, and talks about the development process for Minecraft: Story Mode and its sequel. He discusses closely working with community members and Mojang Studios. He then highlights several of the guest actors, teasing the character of Anthony, and the importance Stampy Cat and Stacy Plays have in the narrative. He moves on to talk about how the game works within the broader Minecraft continuity, pointing out there is in-universe justification for exclusive mobs, singling out the Giant Ghast. From there he praises the character of Lluna the llama, calling her their favorite addition to the cast.
As four minutes remain, Scott leaves and the cohosts begin talking about thair personal choices for the Mob Vote. The YouTuber Rabahrex wriggles his way into the show, and begins talking about how he plans on voting for the Barnacle. After a conversation about all the options, they begin to discuss breathing exercises, before wrapping things up. Declaring "come on, MINECON Earth! It's gonna be great," the pre-show ends.


=== Opening ===
As the show officially begins, a segue into the formal opening begins. A countdown appears in the void, before panning into a catacomb of bedrock lit with torches. As ten seconds pass, the setting transitions into a stone cave, with Steve and a creeper flying past the countdown. The camera rises up a shaft into a mineshaft with an inordinate amount of chests, before reaching 40 seconds. More chests begin to appear, alongside log pillars and furnaces. Soon the ceiling elevates into an artificial environment with smooth stone flooring, then into a cobblestone cave filled with lava, as the clock ticks down to 30 seconds. Several skeletons appear to shoot at Alex, as the scope of the area grows, multiple large pillars being visible, before the camera rises again through a blob of what appears to be yellow terracotta or sponges, into water. As twenty seconds remain, the camera is straightened onto a surface pond, before revealing the event logo in the final ten seconds. Fireworks go off as MINECON Earth begins anew.
As the formal opening ends, a live action segment begins, on the shot of a stage door being knocked. The perspective is revealed to be first person, and belonging to Will Arnett, who boasts "hi there, I'm Will," and explains he's trying to find Lydia. He finds her explaining chickens are not ducks, to someone who brought a mallard. Lydia then leaves in a hurry, confusing Will, as a backstage employee asks for his autograph, leading to him getting swarmed with requests. Suddenly, several feathers explode from an unknown source, as a llama is leashed into the room and Will begs for help. Will remarks they look less blocky than they do in the video game, only for him to be shocked when the real llama is magically transformed into a Minecraft llama, which apparently feasts on cardboard grass blocks. Will then picks up a Styrofoam diamond sword, accidentally losing his grip and throwing it at a cow, the last one they had. Will Arnett is then handed a hat and cane, before being measured for a song and dance number. He then gets makeup down by an overzealous fan, who praises his skin. As twenty seconds remain, another explosion goes off, Lydia evidently being caught in it with crazed hair. Lydia then brings Will into the shadows.
The pre-recorded skit ends, as Will Arnett and Lydia Winters emerge on a physical stage, recorded live. Lydia remarks "hellooo, Earth!" and introduces Will. She explains they "wanted to make this show inclusive," hence the switch to a live stream. Will Arnett assumes she means building one giant monitor in space so everyone on Earth can see it in the sky. Will Arnett then asks what "the show" entails, Lydia promising "a lot of stuff planned," comparing it to a variety show. Lydia then introduces the Mob Vote, which Will Arnett says blew his mind. The audience cheers as he says he's hosting, and jokes about "beating his kids [at Minecraft]." Lydia then reveals that the team at Mojang Studios offered a "crazy challenge," segueing into the first segment of the event.


=== Can a Mojang Employee Survive the Night in a REAL Forest? ===

Beginning in footage of a taiga biome, a narrator discusses how Minecraft is more than a game about creativity, but survival. They then ask the question, how would one of the people behind the game fare in a real world situation? The employee selected for the initiative is Marsh Davies, who introduces himself and claims he's "the least likely to survive." He intends to prove them wrong, boasting that he plays Minecraft and thus knows everything about survival. To assist him in his quest, Marsh is handed a backpack of supplies, but unfortunately, said supplies are various pieces of Minecraft merchandise.
As he embarks into the wilderness, the stakes are established; he's several miles away from civilization, in the "Swedish forests." His first thought is to build a shelter, contemplating punching a tree. Instead, he decides to use a Styrofoam iron axe, and on a small shrub as opposed to a full tree. Venturing farther into the woods, he overhears the squeals of a pig, and begins hunting it down. He pulls out a bow, using it to fire an arrow, both fake. It fails to land him anything, despite functioning as an actual bow.
Later, sitting under a tree with a fidget spinner, he overhears a wolf howl. Hoping to prevent any injuries, he pulls out a diamond sword and hunts down the wolf. This time, he successfully finds it on a large rock, however he flees at the mere sight of it. The time jumps to the next day, the narrator arriving to check in on Marsh. He's found sleeping in a blanket, with his "equipment" scattered. He flees at the mere sight of the narrator, rushing over to a car to get back to civilization as quickly as possible.


=== Mob Vote introduction ===
As the video concludes, Will tries to comprehend whether the video was "fun survival" or "scary survival." Lydia begins to tease the Mob Vote, and introduces the "official Mob Vote correspondant," Vu Bui. After introducing himself, Vu tries to explain why they "can't add all four mobs," speechifying how it's a complex topic and they simply don't have time to go into the exact situation, instead pointing out "players choosing what goes into the games is awesome!" He goes on to explain the mobs in order, before explaining how to vote on Twitter and boasting the losing mobs will be "GONE FOREVER" with a dastardly echo. He then proceeds to ask if he can do that effect "anytime." He can.
As the intermission ends, Will and Lydia appear again, now in a living room set furnished with Minecraft memorabilia. Lydia asks what Will's voting for, but he remarks he can't tell, and doubles down as he looks down to his smartphone to vote. She then boasts she'll find out, as he gives her an easy way to find out by accident, asking what he did to get into the game. He boasts that he is "not a noob. He is then surprised the game has been out for eight years, and the anniversary of the first MINECON. They then go into play styles, Lydia admitting she dies a lot and goes on "miss-adventures." Will Arnett then admitted a creeper blew up his house, before being asked about his first impression of the game, admitting he thought it "looked a little pixely." "Like a chunky pixel."
This reminds Lydia to bring up the option to let players change the aesthetic of the game, using texture packs and mash-up packs, specifically the Super Duper Graphics Pack.  Feeling defensive, Will clarifies he likes how the game looks, as Lydia clarifies she meant it's "like 4K." Lydia then brings up a video they made to promote the pack, calling it "the biggest video we've ever made, by far."


=== The Super Duper Minecraft Musical ===

The video begins on a stage, decorated with a lone grass block with an azure bluet on top. Melissa Benoist walks onto the stage, picking up dirt, singing about personal preference. The curtains open, revealing a small hill in the Overworld, which she climbs, before connecting two cables carried with parrots, marked "Super" and "Duper." Connecting the two, the world's textures begin to convert to that of the Super Duper Graphics Pack.
A Super Duper pig riding a minecart passes by a chicken, converting it instantly. Wolves patrol a snowy plains biome and get the upgrade in milliseconds, while a villager appears out of nowhere. A pig strolls through a badlands biome, and is transformed into a creeper. As Melissa continues singing, the biome changes to a desert, which frightens the creeper. A chorus of llamas appear, as a villager interjects. The biome then changes to a snowy plains, as a squid leaps out of the river and chickens fall from a hot air balloon, transitioning Melissa to a pond.
Stepping across lily pads, Melissa jumps off a cliff into a cityscape, her fall apparently broken by an explosion. Somehow okay, many more mobs begin to dance with her, including Steve, Alex, and many characters from skin packs, climaxing the video as it reveals a huge collection of floating terrain. In the final shot, Melissa is back on the stage, and knocks over a Super Duper zombie.
As the music video concludes, Will Arnett remarks that he recognizes "that actress" as playing Supergirl in the television series. In response, he puts on the voice he uses to play Batman in The LEGO Movie franchise, half-jokingly promoting the release of The LEGO Batman Movie, eliciting applause. Suddenly, Lydia tries to trick Will into admitting what mob he voted for by saying it's winning, but he's smarter than that. Lydia concedes, but decides to transition into creators' opinion on the vote.


=== Mob Vote intersection ===
Several creators appear on screen, eating popcorn on a couch in front of several photos of the event logo. The creators include CavemanFilms, AntVenom, BlackieChanXBL, and Stephy, who discuss their opinions on each of the Mob Vote options. After discussing the dangers of the four candidates, they conclude they'll "be dead" regardless. Suddenly, the feed cuts back to the main set, where Logdotzip, PixelPrincess80, Rabahrex, and DaphneElaine appear to "sneak" in while Will and Lydia are backstage. They declare it's better to play together, sitting on the couch to promote the Better Together update, playing on a unique world with race cars.
Before the race could conclude, Will and Lydia wander back onto set out of character. Lydia is shocked to see the four creators having "taken over the stage," while Will is insulted more than anything, before the creators retreat in a panic. Once the four YouTubers leave the stage, the audience applauds. Will Arnett doubles down on the threat they posed to his job security, before Lydia decides to segue into a commercial for the video game live streaming service Mixer, featuring pigs and a chicken materializing out of thin air. Following the ad, Will Arnett becomes concerned the same thing will happen on the stage, before asserting the Mob Vote is a bigger concern they should focus on first. He decides it's time to check up on the vote's progress. Before that happens, he makes a number of puns.
Vu Bui returns, reusing his intro from the prior segment. He gives an update, announcing that "you humans" have been voting in the thousands. It's revealed that Mob A lost by 23% of the vote, "banishing it to never be seen again." In order to banish it, he takes out a lighter and burns a fabric name tag for the mob, destroying it beyond repair. From there he announced a second poll, before returning to Lydia and Will, now on a set of a plains biome.


=== Community spotlight ===
Situating themselves in the new setting, Will begrudgingly admits Mob A was the one he voted for, and is visibly taken aback by its death. Lydia promises Vu will return in half an hour to continue the initiative, before Will develops a desire to see the community. The feed cuts to MINECON Earth parties across the world, showing people at places such as the Museum of Pop Culture in Seatle. Will then decides he is happy, before doing a comedic Scottish accent. Lydia then highlights the introduction of secondary conventions, 16 in total across 4 countries, set to begin in 2018.
Afterwards Lydia announces the cosplay competition. Will Arnett apparently doesn't know what it is, so Lydia gives an example; dressing up as Batman. Flustered, Will does his Batman voice again, joking he makes 17¢ whenever he says the name in that voice. In order to host the cosplay contest, Lydia invites the winner of last year's show, Ruthie, who wore a magma cube costume. Arnett's doubt leads to video proof of the costume, everyone cheering for her imagination. Before revealing the three finalists, several of the other candidates are shown, including Steve riding a pig, a snow golem, a pale wolf with a pink bow, TNT, the Ender Dragon, a rabbit, Herobrine, and many more.
As the reel ends, Lydia prepares the finalists, mentioning some were so elaborate the costumes simply couldn't be delivered without destruction. The finalists include Lily from Lancaster, California, who created a costume of a bipedal wolf, in third place. In second place is Joel and Troy, who created a guardian with a functional eye and tail. The winner are father and son Chad and Noah Keck from San Antonio, who made Jesse with the Formidi-Bomb, and the Wither Storm. After being announced the winner, the two arrive on stage in costume, Ruthie handing the winners their prizes.


=== Adventure Time ===
Once the contest concludes, Lydia asks what Will he would like to cosplay as. He gives several options, such as a "plate of invisible glass," "a pig who can never get eaten," or "like, a pixely guy who's new in town, but everyone can tell right away he's like, really cool, just by the way he walks." Lydia then proceeds to announce the collaboration with Adventure Time, initiating an interview with Jeremy Shada and Olivia Olson, the voices of Finn the Human and Marceline the Vampire Queen. They discuss the Adventure Time Mash-Up Pack, having a brief exchange about Marceline not burning in sunlight, before showing material from the crossover episode Diamonds and Lemons.
A reel of model sheets from the episode play, including the Grass Lands, Finn sniffing a pumpkin pie, Finn, Jake the Dog mining with a pickaxe, Marceline in a sun hat, a skeleton, Ice King, Princess Bubblegum, a background with signs, Lemongrab, Lumpy Space Princess, an enderman, and a "cubular" forest. While listing the assets off, the two voice actors make several comedic comments, talking as if the characters are actually there. From there, they reveal a preliminary look at animation from the episode, which Jeremy assumes for a moment features Dracula. The storyboards open with several skeletons building a windmill, as Marceline stretches before summoning more to help build it for her. Finn walks in and compliments the project, before Marcy lets slip she plans to "grind up a whole mess of bone meal." Marcy then brings attention to an item Finn found, before making a joke about Finn's rear end.


=== Marketplace Partners ===
Once that segment concludes, Lydia thanks the talent at Cartoon Network, while Will snidely remarks he would have liked to appear on the show as well. The hosts talk about the innovative side of Minecraft, such as a reconstruction of Denmark. They transition to the multiplayer aspect of Minecraft, and then unveil a video about various creators, Will impressed by the amount of external videos featured in the show. A narrator tells of the perception of Minecraft as a game about breaking and placing blocks, because "well, it is," before seguing to people who "saw something more." Joe from Noxcrew gives an account, talking about apparent dangers of creating with redstone. Connected by their passion for craft, Alex from Blockception is interviewed, discussing how far they've come in terms of adventure maps. The next interviewee is Razz from Razzleberries, who talks about her passion for skins. All these talents combined are said to have led to the creation of the Marketplace, awakening an unlimited imagination.
Once that concludes, Emily Orrson appears on stage and explains the hosts are "off checking the vote count." Taking their place, she begins discussing new partners, such as Mindcrack, both for the Marketplace and servers. The audience is established to remember servers exist. The stream cuts to a trailer for several servers, "in a world... where everything is better together." It's explained that several million players "had a dream," to compete on the greatest multiplayer servers. To achieve this, they embarked on a quest, compared to a cat being pushed off a bookshelf by a piston. From there the narrator begins listing off many by names and minigames, including the Hive. The video ends by condemning a player named Neil, who is not a champion.


=== Mob Vote intermission ===
Once the trailer ends, another first person behind the scenes video begins, showing over a dozen Mojang employees struggling to keep up with counting the Mob Vote. They begin to show some hope, until a new batch of votes is dispensed from a tube and people begin laughing manically. The feed then returns to Vu and his intro, who is speaking to someone on his earpiece, not knowing he's live. He reminds the viewer that they're on the second round, and pushes to vote, before promising to "check in our counters." He then makes a pun on the term "chopping block," praying that viewers understood it.


=== Build Blitz ===
The feed returns to Will and Lydia, who promise a mob being eliminated. Lydia then establishes the current subject; a game of Build Blitz, where the two hosts compete to help manage teams. Although Will Arnett seems certain he'll win, Lydia then clarifies the teams chose who to coach them, remarking "I can smell your fear." OMGchad, DaphneElaine, TrueTriz, and PixelPrincess80 make themselves known, and immediately gravitate towards Lydia. In order to win some over, he announces he will coach them as Batman, convincing PixelPrincess80 and a reluctant TrueTriz.
The rules of the game are explained; they have to memorize a build, and then reconstruct it as fast as they can. If a block is placed, it can't be reclaimed. The build begins with the placement of several oak planks and smooth stone slabs, followed by oak logs. With 12 seconds left, the tension rises, Team Lydia winning the round. The second of three rounds begins, focused on a blue bed. The idea of stealing controllers is thrown around, before ultimately Team Lydia wins again. The final round is a mouse head, with buttons for eyes and a pink concrete nose. The audience cheers for Team Lydia, and then Team Will, who admits he is a noob. Ultimately, Team Lydia is triumphant.


=== Mob Vote intervention ===
Abruptly, Will returns to Vu, who is still in the middle of counting the vote. He proceeds to apologize for the "appearance of chaos" in the sketch prior and explains that, in the industry, this is known as "organized chaos." He proceeds to establish Mob B as the current winner, with 37% of the vote, referred to as "The Mob to Be." Mob D then loses, Vu describing its elimination to "being banished to history and memedom." Vu then eats paper, before announcing "two down, two remain, fresh round of voting begins right now!"


=== Introducing Llamas to Minecraft ===
Returning to the hosts once again, Lydia asks Will who he thinks will win. He says it could go either way, calling them cool, if "not as cool as what I'd come up with." As Lydia explains the hard work needed to add just one mob into the game, she segues into a segment explaining the development of the llama. The feed cuts to Agnes Larsson, who questions whether to do llamas or alpacas. Jens then appears, inviting her over to his desk to inform her of a Twitter poll which decided on the answer. Handing her supplies, she embarks on a trip to research llamas, wearing thick clothing to protect herself from saliva.
Sneaking into a forest, she documents llamas from afar, taking notes, measuring them, creating a color palette, and "really study every angle." She then says there is a conception of mob research as being taken too seriously. Returning to Mojang HQ, she begins coding the mob at her desk, while speaking to another developer about parrots. When asked how the development of that mob went, it cuts to a jungle.


=== Hour of Code ===
The feed returns to the hosts, now back in the indoor sets. As the audience applauds, Lydia introduces Saxs Persson, Will grateful to be face to face with an actual programmer. Saxs then clarifies he is actually a creative director, and talks about how game development is more than coding. Lydia asks him how to make a game, and he segues to a video on the Minecraft Hour of Code. He says that, this year, they've introduced functions, which Will points out has the word fun it. After the three butt heads somewhat, Saxs reveals that Stacy Plays will be helping host the videos.
The feed cuts to a video of Stacy, Stampy, Lizzie, and PrestonPlayz on a railway to a badlands plateau. Suddenly, the four fall into a hole on the track, crashing into a body of water. As Lizzie suffers from a cactus, Stampy comes to the late conclusion that there was a hole. They then decide to race to find the materials needed to escape the crevice, pulling out pickaxes, only to discover they can't break anything. As they humor the idea of the code being broken, an agent appears, before Stacy resumes real life against her will.
The feed transitions to a live interview with Stacy, who talks about working with Minecraft Education. She explains how the Hour of Code game works, before quickly signing off.


=== Update Aquatic ===
As the feed once again returns to the hosts, Will feels invigorated, Lydia proud of him. Announcing that it's "time to swim," Lydia leaves so he can focus on the new update. On his own, Will professes he can do whatever he wants, and ponders what to start with, saying he always wanted to be a talk show host. On command, a crew of people arrive to rearrange the set, giving him a new suit to host the talk show. Snapping his fingers, the lighting changes to purple, and the backdrop becomes a cityscape. 
Will welcomes his first guest, Jens Bergensten himself, who shakes his hand and sits on the couch. He jokes "since I've first started the show I've wanted you as a guest," saying he's a big fan before bluntly asking who he is and what he does. Jens explains his role at the time as lead creative designer, a position he's had for six years at that point. He talks about his push to find a consensus, listen to the community, before Will asks for his "origin story." Jens recounts how Markus Persson quit his job to focus on Minecraft full time, and hired Jens to work on other games besides Minecraft, which he never did. By the time the game became a global phenomenon, Jens was working full time as well, before surpassing Persson.
The subject changes to questions, and then limitations of Minecraft. Jens explains "almost anything goes," and calls vanilla Minecraft a fancy adventure. Will then praises a mug in the shape of TNT. Asking about how design sessions go, Jens recounts how they always ask "what now?" before going into inspiration, such as movies, other games, and walking down the street. He recounts how the World of Color update was inspired by a beautiful terracotta floor, which he recognized was actually just one tile repeated in creative ways, inspiring glazed terracotta. The topic then changes to the next update.
Jens talks about how they now have both Java Edition and Bedrock Edition relatively caught up. Then and there, Jens announces the Update Aquatic, revealing prototypes of several new features. These include bubble columns, tridents, coral, kelp, fish mobs, water physics, shipwrecks, and dolphins. Once the video ends, Jens talks about bubbles and prototyping features, explaining that items will float in water, while magma blocks pull them downwards. He then shows off the trident, explaining the loyalty enchantment and comparing it to Mjölnir, before discussing riptide. He then mentions a suggestion by Nathan Adams; allowing the riptide mechanic to work in rain. The next talking point are fish, highlighting the added variety, and then clarifies coral reefs will be segmented between separate biomes.
From there Jens talks about changing water physics, hoping to remove "weird air pockets." He then announces icebergs, and expands on dolphins, getting the highest acclaim. He establishes dolphins as helpers, before specifying there are more features planned. Will makes a joke, saying it's nice dolphins have a "sense of porpoise." 


=== Mob Vote resolution ===
Snapping his fingers, Will then invites Vu onto the set to announce the winner of the Mob Vote. Opening up a padded metal briefcase, Jens grabs an envelope holding the winner. Will then makes a topical joke about La La Land, before Jens announces Mob B as the winner. Showing off a colored version of the illustration, Will then lies that he voted for it, as Vu says the vote was very close. Will then asks Jens if he is excited. as he specifies they don't have a name yet and will come in the Update Aquatic. Vu then says he needs "the keys to the handcuffs" and leaves with Jens.


=== Song and Dance Number ===
Alone once again, Will asks for whatever he wants, as Lydia returns in a fancy dress. She says she's happy MINECON can be "around the world, for everyone," and then begins the song and dance number. Singing off-key, Lydia and Will sing about the Update Aquatic and the events of the day, Will professes he's learned. Several backup dancers dance behind the two as they disruptively list off things that happened, Will promising to return the next year, saying he's "no longer a fool!" All the guests of the show stand behind the hosts, as they sign off the show for the year.


=== Post-show ===
The proper show concluded, the opening animation repeats, with an added caption telling viewers to wait for a post-show. Julia Hardy welcomes the viewers back, now with Aureylian. Relieved they can finally go over the new content, they begin gushing over the song and dance number, pondering over where the backup dancers came from. Julia ponders whether they'll do dance numbers every year, both surprised to see Lydia singing "in a dress and heels!" They then talk about the pacing and amount of surprises, then the Mob Vote.
Suddenly, OMGchad appears, concerned about confetti. PixelPrincess80 appears next, discussing stage fright and standing in vicinity of Will Arnett. OMGChad praises his method of handshaking. They then joke about the next MINECON being a full musical underwater. They then talk about the Mob Vote, which many people backstage are satisfied by. The topic of a tie with both mobs coming is discussed, before TrueTriz appears and they talk about Adventure Time. They were surprised to see the voice actors, not expecting them to be who they were. TrueTriz's favorite moment was his momentum in Build Blitz.
Talking about the contest winners, they speak very highly of them, saying they want to hang out with them. The topic then comes up of who the YouTubers would cosplay as, TrueTriz wanting to honor Reuben. Other suggestions given are sheep, bats, polar bears, and enchanted armors with holographic glint. As the conversation wraps up, the viewer is thanked with the creators.


== Mob Vote ==

Watchers were able to vote for a new mob to be added into the game, out of 4 options (pictured). People were able to vote via a Twitter poll, and the three mobs that did not win the vote were not implemented.


==== Mob A ====

Mob A, the Barnacle, also called "The Monster of the Ocean Depths", was a "jellyfish-like" ocean creature that sucks players down with its tentacle. The mob spawns in oceans and deep oceans and has a large mouth that it uses to propel itself through the water. Jens says that viewers should vote for Mob A because there is currently not a lot of content in the oceans, and it would make a good challenge for players traveling across the ocean. Mob A was eliminated after the first poll.
The Update Aquatic went on to add bubble columns generated from magma blocks, serving a similar purpose.


==== Mob B ====

Mob B, the Phantom, at the time known as "The Monster of the Night Skies", is a flying creature that seeks out and attacks players who haven't slept for 3 days. It spawns at high altitudes in the air, and attacks in groups. Jens says that viewers should vote for Mob B because there were no flying monsters in the Overworld yet. Mob B won the vote, and was first added into the game in Java Edition 1.13 snapshot 18w07a, with the name of "the phantom."


==== Mob C ====

Mob C, "The Great Hunger", was a lizard-like creature that sinks into the ground, camouflages itself and consumes mobs and items with its huge mouth. It has a "great appetite for enchanting powers" and Jens says that viewers should vote for Mob C because players may be able to use the mob's abilities to add or remove enchantments for players' own items. Mob C was eliminated after the third poll.
The ability to remove enchantments was later added in the form of the grindstone block.


==== Mob D ====

Mob D, The Wildfire, called "The Hovering Inferno" during the vote, is a type of blaze. Its body parts serve as shields and are used to defend itself from attack. This mob would spawn with groups of blazes randomly and attacks the player in the Nether with its dangerous shock wave attack. Jens says that viewers should vote for Mob D because it would make the Nether "even more scary and exciting". Mob D was eliminated after the second poll.
In spite of losing the vote, it was then added as a mob in the Luminous Night seasonal adventure in Minecraft Dungeons, as well as Minecraft: Portal Dash.


==== Results ====
At 30 minutes into the event, Mob A lost the vote and was eliminated. 30 minutes after that, Mob D was also eliminated. After 20 more minutes, Mob B won the vote, eliminating mob C. Mob B has been released alongside Java Edition and Legacy Console Edition Update Aquatic and alongside Bedrock Edition 1.6.0.


== Promotions ==


=== Merchandise ===
Prior to the event, several pieces of merchandise was released by JINX. Some directly promoted the event, others were indirectly themed after it in inexact ways.​[more information needed]


=== Skin pack ===

In celebration of the event, the MINECON Earth 2017 Skin Pack was made freely available for Bedrock Edition, Legacy Console Edition, and as a ZIP file for Java Edition.


=== Abstraction: Minecon Earth ===

As part of the Abstraction series, Jigarbov Productions released a map to coincide with the event on July 31, 2018. The map is set on a to scale replica of the MINECON Earth logo, with the player being tasked to locate several objects.


=== Purple Parrot Party Palace ===

Themed after the World of Color update, Purple Parrot Party Palace was released to the Marketplace on November 13, 2017. Developed by the "Minecraft Team," the map centers around exploring an expanse of jungle territory, working the way over to a palace owned by an apparent purple parrot named Pete.


== Quotes ==


== Videos ==


== Trivia ==
During the opening skit, a sign for U.S. Route 66 can be seen in the backstage, above a diamond sword.
BlackieChanXBL filmed the segment he appeared in wearing what appears to be the Atari logo on his shirt, resulting in it having to be blurred in post to prevent copyright violation.[verify]
During the race segment, the featured YouTubers appeared to be using either generic or newly made accounts with default gamertags, such as InverseTunic842, HillyGolf87391, BillionTrack390, and PeepyPlayer651.[verify]
In the background of the Adventure Time segment, a picture of the character Steven Universe can be seen underneath a replica of Finn's Minecraft head.


== Gallery ==


=== Official artwork ===


=== Screenshots ===


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==