Minecraft LIVE – March 2025 was a Minecraft LIVE event which took place on March 22, 2025 at 17:00 UTC that revealed new Minecraft features and other news.
An after show called "The Deep Dig" was broadcast following the main show, featuring playthroughs of newly announced content, developer commentary, and special guests: Snifferish and Emma Myers.


== Livestream ==


== Summary ==


=== Pre-show ===
There was a 15-minute Community Pre-Show before the main event, featuring content creators discussing Minecraft. The hosts who presented the Pre-Show were YouTubers GeminiTay and Bobicraft. This was released on-demand on YouTube the next day as a separate video to Minecraft LIVE.


=== Intro ===
The event begins with a reprise of the announcement trailer, before Jens Bergensten appears in front of several blocks previously introduced in The Garden Awakens. He teases several of the show's subjects before a pufferfish transitions the show to a segment with the Tinies. Tiny Vu, hanging out in a pale garden, is confused by the change in schedule. A creaking tries to sneak up on him, before Tiny Agnes and Tiny Jens step in, concerned for his well-being. 
The two explain that Live is two shows a year, in order to share "evil plans," which Jens quickly backtracks on. After explaining the game drop system, Tiny Jens says his favorite color is "beach ball." Tiny Vu remarks that he wishes to "vote to forget the creaking," and in retaliation, the creaking pops the beach ball even though it's not Vu's. Agnes then recaps the various new features of the Spring to Life drop, such as leaf litter. Tiny Vu then asks for the next drop to be named after him, causing Agnes to say she'll "have a talk with [him], off camera!" Suddenly, several chickens hatch.


=== Spring to Life ===

The show cuts to the perspective of a chicken, as it wanders around Mojang Studios and lays an egg. In another room, it apparently wanders in and climbs onto a table, before being shooed away. Its next stop is in a cafeteria kitchen, where someone is in the middle of eating an egg. From there, Agnes Larsson introduces herself, and announces the name of the next game drop, Spring to Life, as well as its release date: March 25, 2025. She proceeds to explain the mission statement and theme of the drop, being to expand on core values such as exploration.
In order to expand on the new features, the show cuts to Sarah Boeving and Matthew Clohessey, likening the update to spring cleaning. Sandra Karlsson and Matthew Gatland appear next, saying that biomes feel more alive, through several new blocks and new mob variations. The design philosophy of the skins are explained; they retain the iconic traits of the originals, while diverging in less important ways and introducing color variety. Cold cows were inspired by Highland cattle, warm pigs the red river hog, and cold chickens Polish chickens. Another new feature is several new sounds, such as personalities for wolves, and sand ambience to make deserts feel empty. Insight is given into the wolf sounds; they're taken from dogs from a daycare. Another goal was adding movement, such as firefly bushes.
Another change highlighted is the redesign of spawn eggs, which were given individual textures to help distinguish the growing amount of mobs. More changes are touched on, including lodestones no longer using netherite ingots, and the Villager Trade Rebalance. As a final recap, a new short called A Wandering Trader Springs to Life! by Element Animation is shown.


=== A Minecraft Movie ===
As the animation concluded, Emma Myers appears on a stage of blocks, introducing herself as the actress of Natalie. She recounts playing Pocket Edition growing up, and her reactions to stepping on sets for locations such as Midport Village. She singles out the "cute potatoes" among other props, before revealing a clip of the film.
Several villagers react in shock at the sight of the misfits, as Steve introduces them to his new friends, additionally stressing how much they enjoy bread. Amazed, Garrett asks if they built the whole town, which Steve confirms while shining a light on his own additions, stressing the power of imagination. Suddenly, Natalie is terrified by the sight of an iron golem, causing Steve to tease that they're "total softies." 
While Natalie remains terrified and baffled by the supernatural properties of the Overworld, the tour continues. Garrett requests a meal "pronto," Steve assuring him he has food, leading them to Steve's Lava Chicken!. He asks if they ever wondered what happens if "ya mix hot lava and chicken," revealing that he did and conducted experiments to find out. He demonstrates by pulling a lever, activating a redstone wire, which drops a chicken into the contraption, with the lava pouring in the chicken, startling Dawn. The cooked lava chicken then pops out of the roof over the counter and on to the counter, ready to be eaten.
As the clip concludes, Emma returns, assuring the viewer than the village will get invaded and ravaged later in the film. She remarks how her background in dance helped her prepare for the fight choreography, pointing out they share many aspects. As she promotes the release of the film, she reveals that an event server based on A Minecraft Movie will be released. This server would run from March 25 to April 7, allowing players to embark on quests with their favorite characters and earn an exclusive cape, promising to return with Jens to play it later on.
The feed cuts to a trailer for the event. A film accurate recreation of Midport Village is shown, as Steve tries to till a path with a hoe. Suddenly, a pig gets slaughtered by a piglin, instigating a battle against the invasion. The scene cuts to a tower defense, with Makena and Efe on high fighting against ghasts and hoglins. Several enemies are shown off emerging from Nether portals, before an adventure with Henry is introduced inside a mineshaft. Another minigame is shown; "protecting the payload with Dawn and Natalie." Finally, Makena, Kai, Noor, and Efe show off the new Yearn cape.


=== Vibrant Visuals ===
As the movie coverage ends, the focus shifts to a Mojang employee walking down a dark hallway. They approach an enderman, and realize too late that they looked it in the eyes.
Agnes returns, mentioning how excited she is to announce new drops, but forwards the stream back to Jens, recounting the history of the game's art style. He looks back on his old programmer art, remarking he was no artist, and says the World of Color Update was their first professionally designed release. He then brings up custom shaders and resource packs, which allow players to customize the game in varying ways. This segues into their newest project, the "next step for Minecraft's visual design," Vibrant Visuals. A montage of various biomes explored by Zuri is shown, enhanced by various innovations, such as directional light.
Jasper Boerstra appears, assuring that the wondrous new art direction won't impact gameplay, such as through light passing into clouds. However, some features have been improved, namely emissive textures such as spider eyes actually emitting light. A downside is that the direction of the sun can impact builds. Jens returns, sharing a personal story of liking to take photos at dusk or dawn for contrast, which now serves a practical purpose. Jasper then mentions a favorite opportunity of his, being water and submerged structures such as ocean monuments, as well as the deep dark.
Another innovation is the design of shadows, which are aligned with pixels, distinctive of Minecraft's style. Similarly, there are now reflections. It's assured that the feature is compatible with all worlds, and in fact will be run local, meaning players can play on worlds without all needing it activated. The plan is to be initially added to Bedrock Edition, releasing with Java Edition support afterwards.


=== Summer Drop ===
A player was shown teleporting through a nether portal into the Nether, beside a bone structure in a soul sand valley. Agnes said that the dried ghast there looked dry, and thought that it should have water poured on it. The player broke the dried ghast block and took it into the Overworld before placing it on a wooden stair structure, and water logging it. The camera focus was then set on the dried ghast's face until it showed a smiling face, when a ghastling was spawned. Agnes was then describing how it looked, until she said after a while, a happy ghast would spawn. The happy ghast was then shown in a frozen ocean biome, with the new harness on it. The player was riding the happy ghast to the top of a mountain with the locator bar on, then it was explained that you could use the locator bar to find friends to ride with, as the happy ghast could hold up to 4 players at one time. They then did a quick summary of what they had just said, from the dried ghast to the happy ghast being rideable, with the Relic music disc playing the background music.


=== The Deep Dig (aftershow) ===
The Deep Dig, the aftershow, was hosted by Vu Bui, and had Agnes and Felix Jones guiding and interacting with content creator Snifferish across many of the additional features being added to the upcoming Summer Drop. They used happy ghasts in a variety of manners, including riding on top of one while building, exploring a world with Vibrant Visuals enabled, and navigating through an obstacle course. During the session, Agnes mentions that the original idea for the happy ghast came from concept art intended for a ridable ghast mount in Minecraft Legends. Later, Emma Myers along with Agnes and Jens Bergensten toured the A Minecraft Movie live event map.


== Videos ==


=== Announcement trailer ===

The event was announced in a video which was uploaded to the official Minecraft YouTube Channel on March 5, 2025. It features several mobs dancing to the remix version of Minecraft Live 2022's Announcement Trailer music: "Frog Stroll".


=== Pre-release ===
A pre-release video discussing what will be announced at Minecraft LIVE was released on March 19, 2025.


==== Characters ====
Alan
Bee
Chicken
Cold Chicken
Cold Pig
Cow
Creaking
Creeper
Dawn
Emma Myers
Garrett
Henry
Jens Bergensten
Llama
Marco Ballabio
Natalie
Snifferish
Steve
Steve
Vu Bui
Warm Cow


== Trivia ==
In one of the transitional segments, several LEGO Minecraft sets can be seen, one of which built.
This main show was the shortest yet, at a length of 26:47. Previous shows have usually been at least an hour long.
The Orange Fridge seen in the background of the Pre Show's hosts sections is an old piece of furniture that Mojang conserved from the first office Mojang had back in 2012.


== Gallery ==


=== Official artwork ===


== References ==


== Navigation ==