Mobboland is a fictional theme park, appearing in Around the Minecraft World in 80 Biomes. Although claimed to exist in every biome, it is only shown in a desert.


== Layout ==
Hastily built on top of a desert village, Mobboland is a monument to its founder and namesake, Mobbo. The park consists primarily of various replicas of Mobbo heads, made out of wool or concrete. Many of these are slapped on top of various existing buildings, evoking imagery of heads impaled on spikes. At the entrance to the land and its attractions are gates made out of purple concrete. Among the faculties at the park is an exact replica of Mobbo's, an existing business founded by Mobbo.


== Culture ==
The park hosts a very cynical, yet non-aggressive tone. Apparently, each day has a different theme; the one shown was "despair." In order to ride one of the attractions, the Mobbocoaster, participants have to be 256 blocks tall, meaning that nobody is actually allowed to use them. Another attraction, Camel Rides, costs up to  1,000,000 Minecoins for just a minute of action. The final ride is a Nether portal, somehow modified to send the users to random locations, splitting them up if they travel together.


== Biography ==
At an unknown time, Jonathan Minecraft ate too much suspicious stew, and ended up inside of the bathroom for at least four minutes.
After escaping from Mobbo's, Narrator and M.A.R.I.L.L.A. were stuck in a minecart, on a quest to locate and apprehend Mobbo. While having a conversation about desert levels in video games, M.A.R.I.L.L.A. eyed a theme park in the distance, conveniently at the end of the track. While Narrator was horrified by the sight of the place's construction, two endermen in a trench coat tried and failed to get inside, and was ironically deemed too short. Soon, the two heroes end up getting tricked into entering a portal, which sends them to two separate locations. Narrator emerges in an ice spikes biome, and discovers a billboard promoting another one of Mobbo's projects, while M.A.R.I.L.L.A. ends up in the End and finds a statue of Mobbo.
Returning from the bathroom, Jonathan Minecraft and Mobbo met up at the railway in Mobboland. Jonathan attempted to claim his plan was working out, and revealed that Mobbolands exist in every biome, or at least eighty. Mobbo is surprised to learn there are eighty. From there, they enact phase two of their plan.


== Gallery ==


== Navigation ==