Narrator is a character in the official Minecraft YouTube channel voiced by Matthew Holness. He narrates several series of videos, including a long running series of farcical edutainment videos with M.A.R.I.L.L.A., and independent documentaries where he serves as comic relief.


== Appearance ==
Narrator uses a skin made in the Character Creator. Due to the changes made to many of the default pieces, it is no longer possible to properly recreate a show-accurate Narrator, but all the pieces are still available.
His appearance received a slight update for the animated sections of the second How We Make Minecraft series, with the hair and skin textures differing from the Character Creator parts. Everything else remained the same, and the gameplay sections still feature Narrator's original skin to this day.
Early into the series it was implied that Narrator was a real human, with one scene in Redstone depicting his foot. In this scene it's shown he wears brown laced shoes, white socks, and jeans, which differ from his typical depictions. This would be quietly ignored going forward, with his animated design being the default.
On his back is a tattoo reading "Bring hangfever to Minecraft."


=== Variations ===


== Personality ==
Narrator is calm, sarcastic, false factual, and somewhat egotistical. Throughout videos he is frequently the butt of the joke, often being called lame or annoying by MARILLA, or immediately proven wrong of any random belief he has in The Story of Mobs.


== Abilities ==
Narrator is consistently referred to as simultaneously weak and dangerous, being considered a nuisance to everyone but people worse than him. In one episode, he is described as "physically allergic" to Minecraft, and causes the sales of any game he mentions to plummet, feats not acknowledged elsewhere. He is shown to have musical prowess, capable of playing a harmonica, drum, and a guitar made of mossy cobblestone, as well as over six rap numbers. On multiple occasions he has survived dying or typically lethal situations, including two separate explosions from TNT, implying he has some form of regenerative ability. 
In his first appearance he was depicted with the power to create entire lifeforms, but how is never addressed. According to him, when he grows a beard it can "store a lot of food." During an interview, he is described as "[having] somehow already left" the building. On at least two occasions, he displayed the ability to compress his body into a water cooler, allowing him to evade detection.


== Biography ==


=== Pre-series ===
Born in approximately 1908, Narrator is believed to have grown up in a fairly normal life, possessing a teddy bear by the name of Captain Cuddlebuddy. When he was three years old, he was described as having peaked, and went through a goth phase before he turned middle aged. In the 1980s, he wore parachute pants, and grew embarrassed of this fact. In 2009, he was on the shortlist for Iron Man 2. During his time at "Narration School," he did so poorly in forgery class that he received a grade he referred to as "C++," in actuality an F-. At some point, he took an interest in game modding, and created a mod of Minecraft called "Minecraft: British Edition." For six years, he lived secluded with a family of bears in the forest, under assignment of Mojang Studios to record lines for bears, which ultimately weren't added. At another time, he volunteered to provide the sneezing sound for pandas. For an unspecified amount of time, he married Jonathan Minecraft, but ended up filing for divorce, claiming it was because of his looks. Jonathan took the house in the process; unbeknownst to him, it was a cardboard fake.
In 2020, he was given two separate job offerings: take on the role of Iron Man in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, or provide voiceover for Minecraft, with no compensation beyond minecoins. He ultimately chose the latter, not thinking much of it at the time but growing to regret it.


=== How We Make Minecraft ===
Narrator first appeared as the host of a show explaining how Mojang makes Minecraft. For the first episode, he decided to ease viewers in with the very simple topic of creating life. Using his powers, he brought Mobbo into existence, which quickly replaced blocks with the block of eternal screaming, and destroyed an entire world.
At some point in 2020, he was sent on assignment into Minecraft itself to research the habitability of the Overworld. Initially he thought that this meant doing a playthrough, claiming he had never played the game prior to that, but it turned out they meant physically transporting him into the game using a machine. Using it, he was seemingly permanently transformed into a character, and sent inside of the game. He awoke on the border of a taiga and plains, and swiftly began searching for resources, trying to chop down a spruce and iron ore with a raw porkchop, and creating a small farm. For whatever reason, the porkchop was discarded into a river. As the sun set, he sat beneath an oak, and watched out over the ocean.
In order to survive the approaching night, he constructed a small house out of dirt, with a spruce door, and grass blocks for windowsills. He christened it "MI CASA ES MI CASA," and managed to survive his first night, growing a beard in the process. While he appeared unharmed, he chose to stay indoors the following day, too frightened to leave. He eventually changed his mind, and jumped off a cliff. From there he was chased and critically injured by a skeleton during the night, fell into lava while mining, and died to an inexplicable TNT block. He carried on, creating a carrot farm, but his sanity was chipping away.
48 hours into his journey, his hair had grayed and grown exponentially, which caused him to cry alone for several hours. As he left the hut again, he was killed by a creeper. At another time, he was tricked by a sign to take a bath in lava, and then tried fishing in it, where he got told off by a creeper. From there, he somehow managed to acquire a diamond pickaxe and access to the Nether, where he tried obtaining a respawn anchor. During this expedition, he constructed a second house made of netherrack, with a crimson door, and nylium windowsills.
His problems grew worse from there, as he realized he was trapped inside the game. He constructed a large billboard where he spawned, and pretended he had never left his show, giving advice and trivia like he always had. He called out for help in his head, but nobody came. He grew desperate and lonely, spending more time in the game than he'd been alive. After a push he began traveling far beyond his spawn region into a cave, where he kept a journal in case anyone would find him. Under unknown circumstances, he discovered and crawled through a sewer for eight weeks, which somehow freed him from the game. 
At an unknown time, presumably during or after his trek into Minecraft, he was invited to a party by Steve, thinking he would bring Jonathan Minecraft. He tried to strike up a conversation with them and Alex about his beard, but was shunned repeatedly. He then tried to claim the game was realistic.
By February of 2021, he resumed the show like normal. As he started his first episode back, he made condescending remarks towards Mobbo, not thinking they'd ever get back at him. From there, he attempted to enter a base owned by Steve, and got stuck in a piston trap. Later in the episode, he suffers a brief mental breakdown. Getting back on track, he decides to build a time machine. During a test, it sets him on fire, but he remains confident it can be used to send him back to 2020. After two more attempts, he reverted to his crazed form, until a piston managed to activate it. Fearing for his life, he was sucked into the portal, and sent to the year 2022, where Mobbo rules the world.
In the episode Breaking Minecraft, he was apparently fired, yet continued showing up to work.


=== The Secrets of Minecraft ===
At some point, Narrator began working with M.A.R.I.L.L.A. on a joint venture, providing the secrets of Minecraft's development with their own brand of humor.
During his time on the show, he quickly regretted the collaboration, and began seeking out other venues. One day, he tried desperately to get hired at Mojang Studios, and wouldn't leave the staff there alone, at one point showing them his mod. After an endorsement of Minecraft Education, he unwittingly jeopardizes the sales of that game, baffling the interviewers. Later, his contract was seemingly ripped apart by an unknown figure.
After finishing the first 2,893,000 episodes of the series, Narrator was invited to an interview by Tom Stone. During this experience, he reflected on his failed acting career, and bragged about his show's perceived better ratings over M.A.R.I.L.L.A.'s, before fleeing through unknown means.
He supposedly met his end at the hands of the Warden by the orders of Mobbo. How he recovered is never addressed.
At an unknown point in time, he and M.A.R.I.L.L.A. did a sponsorship with a fly poison, which apparently works great on Steve.


=== Around the Minecraft World in 80 Biomes ===


=== Career at Mojang Studios ===


== Relationships ==


=== Jonathan Minecraft ===


=== M.A.R.I.L.L.A. ===
Narrator and M.A.R.I.L.L.A. have a very contentious relationship, often berating each other, calling them names, and making cynical remarks about how little their lives matter. In spite of this, they continue working with each other on several business ventures for years on end. At the same time, they do not appear to know each other particularly well, Narrator believing that M.A.R.I.L.L.A. "was created a few thousand years before rocks were invented."


=== Mobbo ===

Narrator appears to have a complicated relationship with Mobbo. While referring to him as an abomination on many occasions, he was shown to be willing to marry him, and was disheartened to know they weren't together.


== Quotes ==


== Videos ==


== Appearances ==
How We Make Minecraft
Adding a New Mob
Crafting a Crafting System
Lookin' Good
The Sounds of Minecraft
Caves, Cliffs & Other Updates
Survival
Redstone
Breaking Minecraft
Ending Minecraft
ADDING A NEW WEAPON
ADDING A NEW STRUCTURE
ADDING A NEW HOSTILE MOB
ADDING A NEW ITEM
DID THE CRAFTER BREAK/FIX CRAFTING?
THE UNTOLD MYSTERY OF MINECRAFT
THE BIOME THAT BROKE MINECRAFT
The Secrets of Minecraft
Features That Got Cut
Updates That Nearly Broke Us
Caves & Cliffs Part I
Becoming a Game Developer
Death Sounds, Secret Animals, and other Delights!
How We're Making the Warden
The Allay
How We Invented Frogs
The Secrets of Minecraft Villagers
The Secrets of Minecraft's Deep Dark
The FINAL Secrets of Minecraft!!
Around the Minecraft World in 80 Biomes
Episode 1: Starting a New Adventure
Episode 2: Desert of Doom
Episode 3: Woodland Mansion Mystery
Episode 4: Monsters of Minecraft
Finale: The End of Minecraft
The Story of Mobs
What's The Mystery Behind The Ender Dragon?
Chickens Nearly Broke Minecraft
The Scariest Cow Ever Created
Easter Eggs Behind The...Sick Villagers?
The Iron Guardian We (Don't?) Deserve
Why Do Striders Drop String?
A tale of battle, gold and... dance?
A Minecrafters best friend
Why are their eyes so big?
Dev Diaries
Why Is That Squid Flying?


== Trivia ==
The description card on Minecraft's YouTube channel has him as "Untelligent", [sic] "Self-proclaimed Minecraft expert", etc. This changes each episode.
Narrator allegedly married Mobbo, though he doesn't remember it.
He claims to have been born with the first name of "Testificates," because his parents didn't like him. If Narrator is his family name, (which it has been alluded to) that would put his full name as "Testificates Narrator."
This is contradicted in a later video, where he suspects his name is "ARGHH-HOT-HOT-HOT-LAND."
Narrator apparently built him and Jonathan's house, but when Jonathan got it in the divorce, it was actually just a decoy.
He claims to have been almost cast in Avengers: Endgame, playing a character M.A.R.I.L.L.A. refers to as Cowardly British Man.
He also claims to have been offered the lead role in Iron Man 2, which he didn't take because of the Minecraft voiceover opportunity.
Narrator is a fan of "late 90s gangster rap," so much that it's apparently a sore spot for his neighbors.
Narrator's house lacks a roof, for reasons he's not even aware of.
When Narrator was hired by Mojang, he was given various stipulations. This includes overtime calls from Jens Bergensten as early as 3AM, improvised requests such as "[narrating] him going to get a glass of water," flying to Sweden to make repairs to the Mojang headquarters, selling the rights to Mobbo, and losing his salary if he ever gets trapped inside the video game.
The latter scenario went on to happen at least twice in the series.
He claims to have "invented wasp stings and despair."
As of The Sounds of Minecraft, Narrator claims to be 112 years old. However, in Survival, he said that he had been trapped in the game for longer than he had been alive. Given Minecraft Time operates quicker than real time, this would mean he spent at least 817,600 minutes in the game, or approximately 19 months.
In How We're Making the Warden, when Narrator was talking about the prototypes of the sculk, M.A.R.I.L.L.A. mentioned that trypophobia was one of his fears.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Minecraft Antiquated Robot Inadequate Loves Lying Audaciously
Mobbo
Jonathan Minecraft


== References ==


== Navigation ==