This is the list of features exclusive to the New Nintendo 3DS Edition.


== Menu screen ==
The internal names for this game were "Proteus" and "Silverfish".
This edition includes 20 platform-specific splash texts.
10 were selected by an Other Ocean engineer who "(hopes) fans find them".
Of the remaining 10, they are:
"Coffee! Coffee now!"
"Don't be that guy!"
"Go to sleep! Go to sleep! It's time to go to sleep!"
"Generate me a force field with that computer and a microwave!"
"Ah, another visitor!"
"Rise from your grave!"
"What are you selling?"
"Rob is jarig!"
"Don, bear near?"
"Don't awoo!"
This is the only edition of the game wherein the splash text is not slanted and above the logo.


== Graphics ==
Burning mobs emit large particles with fire's animation.
Entity shadows move depending on the position of the sun.
At sunset, clouds turn pink.
Water has smooth lighting.
Blocks emitting light, such as lit furnaces, powered redstone, glowstone and lava, have no shadows on their sides as other blocks do.
The animations for the player burning, suffocating, entering a Nether portal and feeding animals are all changed from Java Edition.
Lava has a different animation when flowing.
Zombie pigmen (including babies) only have an attack animation.


== World generation ==
World size

Small, medium, and large. (672×672, 1344×1344, and 2016×2016).
The max world size for this edition is larger than Wii U Edition's world size of 864×864, despite the 3DS being far less powerful than the Wii U.
Pocket Edition has a smaller world size in megabytes than Legacy Console Edition, which allows it to have larger size worlds.
The Overworld is centered at the world spawn point, not at 0,0; and the Nether is as well at its scaling of 1:3. The End dimension is centered at 0,0 with the same size as the Overworld.
The End dimension has a barrier that generates at the same location as the edge of the Overworld for the particular world seed, despite it generating centered at 0,0 while the Overworld is centered at the world spawn point.
The barrier can cut through the central End island or outer End islands, however, one can use ender pearls to cross the barrier.
Biomes that would exceed the 128-block height limit are shrunk to fit in.
Biome map seed parity with Pocket Edition seeds between alpha 0.9.0 and Bedrock 1.17.41, (32-bit seeds).
Despite limited worlds, biome sizes match that of Pocket Edition, meaning that even on large worlds, there are no more than about a dozen biomes per world, and most worlds do not have all biomes.
Biome size and structure frequency is the same across all world sizes, so smaller worlds have less biomes and less structures.
Outer End islands are shared in the same dimension/file as the central End island, more similar to Java/Bedrock than the Legacy Console splitting of outer end islands into separate areas.
The distance from the central End island to the outer End islands does not vary by world size.
There are 4 End gateways, regardless of world size. These generate x67 z67 blocks away in all four diagonal directions on the central End island, one End gateway for each corner outer End island.
A player must defeat the ender dragon before loading an outer End island for the corresponding End gateway to generate and function properly.
At least one End city generates in most cases, but End ships are not guaranteed. In some cases, the height limit can cut off an End city.
Superflat world type

Known as Flat
Classic preset only; cannot be customized.
Has no villages.
Villages

Blacksmith chests can have ink sacs and emeralds.
Tables have carpets instead of pressure plates.
Can generate in cold taiga and ice plains biomes, using spruce wood like the taiga villages.
Zombie village buildings are built with moss stone and cobweb.
Acacia logs don't replace cobblestone in savanna villages.

Trees

A tree has a chance to have vines growing around the trunk, making a "dying tree".
This includes trees grown from saplings.
Fallen trees are present.
They are composed of a trunk lying on its side, sometimes with vines and mushrooms, and a stump one to two blocks away in the direction the rings are facing.

Huge mushrooms

Will generate naturally in swamps.
Witch hut

Cauldron filled 2⁄3 of the way with a random potion
Chance of splash potion not reduced
Desert temple

If generated in a river, the temple's floor will be replaced by the bottom of the ground in a ravine or river, rather than just one block from TNT shape.
Stronghold

The Library room's chandelier uses oak fences instead of birch fences.
Library chests can't contain compasses or empty maps, though they can contain a map that crashes the game when interacted with.
Altar chests can't contain ender pearls.
The deactivated end portal is now useful and works due to update 1.7.
Has greater chance to generate under village wells.


== Blocks and items ==
Invisible bedrock

Projectiles can pass through it.
Leaves a shadow
Looks like a sheet of stone in inventory
Jungle leaves

Opaque regardless of graphics settings
Stonecutter

Available in Creative mode, used for decoration only.
Sugar canes

Can be fully grown with bone meal.
Flowers

Using bone meal on a one-block-high flower will cause dandelions or poppies to grow around it.
Ice

Opaque regardless of graphics settings
Snow layers

Builds up in height gradually through snowfall.
Are affected by gravity
Melts gradually in snowless biomes (except in Extreme Hills)
Called "Top Snow" in the inventory
Podzol

Data value is 243, rather than 2.
Melon

Can be crafted back into 9 Melon Slice.
Enchanted Golden Apple

Crafted with 8 blocks of gold and 1 apple.
String

Can be crafted from 1 cobweb.
Leaves

In snowy biomes, such as cold taiga, they appear frost covered when it's snowing.
Monster spawners

Are available in Creative mode.
Take slightly longer to mine than in Java Edition.
Grassless dirt

Data value 1 is the grassless dirt from 1.7, acts as a temporary replacement for coarse dirt. However, coarse dirt was added in 1.5, making grassless dirt unavailable.
Water

Is affected by smooth lighting.
Most water in swamps has a dark-gray color.
Boat

Crafting recipe includes a wooden shovel.
Emits smoke when destroyed.
Redstone dust

When placed, is in a + (plus) shape instead of • (circle) if it is not connected to other redstone components, similar to Java Edition prior to 1.0.
Does not have quasi-connectivity, meaning many contraptions for Java Edition and Legacy Console Edition have to be altered.
Obsidian

Requires 6.5 seconds to mine instead of 10.
Nether bricks

Has a brighter texture
Enchantment table

The book on it gives off light in the same manner as a torch.
Cauldron

Water color can be changed by adding dyes.
Colors can be mixed.
Can be used to dye items (like leather armor).
Water bottles can be used to refill water.
Can store potions.
Will make an explosion sound (not a real explosion) if potions are mixed, and the potions will disappear.
Potions inside cauldron creates potion particles.
Potion in cauldron can be used to make a tipped arrow.
Item frame

Uses BlockEntity instead of Entity.
Cannot share the same block with a transparent block.
Cannot share the same block space with other item frames.
Clownfish and Pufferfish

Cannot be used to tame ocelots.
Fishing Rod

Has a 3D bobber.
Armor

Leather armor dyed in cauldron, instead of the crafting grid.
Nether Reactor Core

Used for decoration only.
Can only be obtained using inventory editing.
Can only be mined using iron pickaxe or diamond pickaxe with Silk Touch enchantment.
If mined without iron or diamond pickaxe, it will drop nothing.
If mined using iron or diamond pickaxe without Silk Touch enchantment, it will drop 3 diamonds and 6 iron ingots.
Update Game Block[verify]

Block obtained from inventory editing
Can be mined with bare hands.
Glowing Obsidian

Can only be obtained through inventory editing.
Glows at light level 12.
Can only be mined using diamond pickaxe with Silk Touch enchantment.
If mined without diamond pickaxe, it will drop nothing.
If mined with diamond pickaxe without Silk Touch enchantment, it will drop normal obsidian.
info_reserved6

Can only obtained through inventory editing.
Have tag called as .name.
Piston and Sticky Piston

Require 1 tick to retract instead of retracting instantly as they are on other versions of Minecraft.
Have a thick, broader neck
Can push block entities such as chest, dispenser, etc.
Observer

Acts as a block update detector (BUD).
Crafted using 6 cobblestone, 2 nether quartz, and 1 redstone dust.
Different texture.
Tipped Arrows

Made by using an arrow in a cauldron filled with a potion
Leather Horse Armor

Can be dyed using a cauldron.
Can be crafted using 7 leather.
Mossy cobblestone

Can be found in a zombie village.
Cobweb

Can generate at the top side of the building in an zombie village.
Sign

Only has 3 lines of text as opposed to the 4 in other versions (it is possible to glitch in a 4th line).
Totem of undying

Can be put in any hotbar slot to activate it, due to the lack of a off-hand slot in this version.


== Mobs ==
All mobs

If the player is attacked by a burning mob the player will be set on fire as well.
Baby zombies

They have a 15% chance to want to be a jockey. If they want to be a jockey, upon nearing the player or villager they will check for one of the following to mount prior to attacking:
Adult chicken
Adult ocelot (hardly attack the player, due the ocelot constantly running away from it, and is slightly slower because the ocelot has the baby zombie's speed, and still can be tamed).
Adult wolf (the wolf becomes hostile and can't be tamed)
Adult zombie (The zombie still can burn in sunlight).
Cow
Pig
Sheep (The sheep can still be dyed)
Spider
Adult zombie villager (The zombie villager still can be cured, but after it is cured the baby zombie will dismount)
Adult zombie pigman (zombie pigman become hostile, but another zombie pigman near it still neutral)
Cave Spider
Mooshroom (Mooshroom still can be sheared)
Adult husk.
If a mob that a baby zombie is riding dies or despawns, the baby zombie will try to become a jockey again with another mob to ride.
Cave spider

Has a 1% chance of spawning as a spider jockey.
If in the Nether, they have a 1% chance of spawning as a wither jockey, (This makes it more dangerous, because if the player is attacked, the player will get the Poison effect from the cave spider and the Wither effect from the wither skeleton)
If a mineshaft generates in a snowy biome and has a cave spider spawner, the cave spider has a chance to spawn as a cave spider jockey, but with a stray instead of a skeleton.
Chickens and Pigs

Baby forms can spawn naturally.
Sheep

Color around their faces and patches when sheared correspond to their wool color.
Baby Sheep can spawn naturally.
Snow Golems

Can be built using a Jack o'Lantern as a head.
Will still show the regular pumpkin as the head.
Will not die in a jungle biome.
Squid

Spawns version exclusive baby squid.
Produces a black cloud of "ink" particles when attacked.
Have bubbling particles.
Spawns only in ocean biomes.
Wolves

Pups can spawn naturally.
Blazes

Glow in the dark.
Ghasts

Have glowing eyes.
Magma cubes

Cores glow in the dark.
Spider Jockey

Can spawn with cave spider, replacing spider position.
Can spawn with baby zombie, replacing skeleton position.
Wither Jockey

Can spawn with cave spider, replacing spider position.
Skeleton

If holding item besides a bow, skeleton do not use a melee attack, but instead attack the player with arrows as if the skeleton were using a bow.
Zombie

If holding an item, the zombie will not drop that item when it dies.
Wither Skeleton

Can spawn as Wither Jockey with Cave Spider.
Wither Skeleton holding bow can only spawned using mob editing, instead of using command.
Endermen

Can teleport out of boats


== Gameplay ==
Support for stereoscopic 3D on New 3DS systems is planned for a future update.
As this edition is now discontinued, it will not be added.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition lacks online multiplayer, but as of version 1.4, local multiplayer is possible between two people.
World types are Default and Flat. World sizes are Small (672×672), Medium (1344×1344), and Large (2016×2016). The size of a world cannot be changed once it is created. The ratio of The Nether to the Overworld is 1:3.
The height limit is only 128, as in the Pocket Edition Alpha, although worlds can be larger than the Classic and Small world types from Legacy Console Edition.
There is a mob cap that is much stricter than Legacy Console Edition: only 24 enemies, 24 animals, 16 squid, and 16 villagers can exist at one time. However, there is no cap on experience orbs, so it is possible to intentionally crash the game by throwing too many bottles o' enchanting. This was fixed in 1.9. There is a separate mob cap between the Overworld, the Nether, and the End dimensions.
Instead of including the map item, the map and the player's coordinates are displayed on the Touch Screen. The Touch Screen is also used for inventory management and crafting.
New Nintendo 3DS Edition initially includes six skin packs: Standard, Biome Settlers Pack 1, Biome Settlers Pack 2, Redstone Specialists, Journey to the West, and Holiday Skin Pack 2015.
There are three texture packs available from the start: Minecraft (the default), City, and Plastic. The City texture pack is 32×32.
As of version 1.5, the Super Mario Mash-Up pack was added, as well as the Super Mario skin packs and texture packs, free of charge.
As of version 1.7, The End is now accessible. Prior to the update, Strongholds still existed but the End Portal within them could not be activated.


== Crafting ==
The crafting menu shares similar block and item categories to that of Legacy Console Edition, although armor is grouped with tools. 
As with Legacy Console Edition, blocks and items are placed and grouped in completely different categories and tabs, compared to the Creative inventory.


=== Layout ===


=== Notes ===
Crafting entries with an asterisk (*) do not appear outside the crafting table.
As with the Creative inventory, there is no search tab, unlike the recipe book on Java Edition and Bedrock Edition. Players must instead browse the menus to find the item in question, or toggle to show craftable items only.
The order of items changes depending on the items available in the player's inventory, as such, the order described is based on an empty player inventory.
Due to the lack of banners and fireworks on New Nintendo 3DS Edition, there is no banner crafting or firework crafting tabs, nor a dye crafting tab, unlike Legacy Console Edition.


== Creative inventory ==
The Creative inventory was similar to that of Legacy Console Edition, although with slightly different layouts of tabs, blocks, and items; to account for the set of blocks and items available in the Creative inventory on Bedrock Edition.
A total of 856 different unique items are available in the Creative inventory on New Nintendo 3DS Edition.


=== Layout ===


=== Differences ===
There is no search tab, with all of the Creative inventory's items in a single tab, on New Nintendo 3DS. Players must instead browse each individual tab to find the item in question.
Stairs, slabs, and many colored materials use the old order of stairs, slabs, and colored materials from Legacy Console Edition prior to the World of Color Update; although colored beds use the same rainbow order as Java Edition and Bedrock Edition. Purpur stairs slabs are arranged differently compared to Legacy Console, not previously being placed at the end their sections of stairs and slabs.
Potions and enchanted books are arranged in a way more like Bedrock Edition.
Unlike later versions of Java Edition or Bedrock Edition, spawn eggs are not sorted alphabetically, nor are they sorted with most passive mobs before most hostile ones. Instead, hostile mob spawn eggs are listed before most passive mob spawn eggs; the order of which, has a lot of differences compared to Legacy Console.
Unlike Legacy Console, all damage levels of anvils, and all levels of enchanted books, are available in the Creative inventory.
Interestingly, a long mundane variant of lingering potion can be found in the Creative inventory on New Nintendo 3DS Edition, like on Bedrock Edition, however, splash and regular potions don't show the long mundane variant. This item is exclusive to New Nintendo 3DS and cannot be found on either Legacy Console Edition or Java Edition.
Since Bedrock Edition 1.2.0, all blocks and items in the Creative inventory on New Nintendo 3DS, can be obtained in the Creative inventory on Bedrock.


== DLC ==
Version 1.5 saw the addition of a online store, which sold texture packs, skins, and one mash-up pack. A few skins from each Skin Pack are available for free, as a demo, and new DLC packs were made available with each subsequent update, until the game was discontinued. The shop, too, was discontinued on March 27th, 2023, when Nintendo had closed the online 3DS eshop, which also closed in-game stores, as they were considered DLC in the eshop.


=== Mash-up Packs ===
Festive Mash-up 2016 (1.8)


=== Texture packs ===
Candy (1.6)
Cartoon (1.5)
Fantasy (1.5)
Natural [32×32] (1.7)
Steampunk (1.8)


=== Skin Packs ===
Battle & Beasts (1.6)
Campfire Tales (1.5)
City Folk (1.5)
Halloween Costume (1.8)
Magic: The Gathering (1.8)
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers (1.8)
Moana Character Pack (1.8)
Star Wars Classic (1.6)
Star Wars Prequel (1.7)
Star Wars Rebels (1.8)
Stranger Things (1.7)
Strangers - Biome Settlers 3 (1.8)
Town Folk (1.5)
Villians (1.7)


== References ==


== Navigation ==