Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition is the edition of Minecraft developed by 4J Studios and Mojang Studios for Nintendo Switch systems. It was announced on January 12, 2017 at the Nintendo Switch Presentation 2017, and was available on the Nintendo eShop for US$29.99 between May 11, 2017 and June 21, 2018. Existing digital owners are still able to access, re-download, and play this version. A retail version was said to be arriving at a later date, but was never released. DLC for the game is still available on the Nintendo eShop. Like the Xbox One and PlayStation 4 editions players, the Nintendo Switch Edition owners have the option to download the Bedrock version for free, however not all DLCs will transfer. As with other games that are released on Nintendo Switch systems, Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition can be played in TV, handheld, or tabletop mode.
Compared to the Wii U Edition, the Nintendo Switch Edition features world sizes up to 3072×3072 blocks (3½ times larger), native 1080p resolution in TV Mode, and the option to constantly save the world in the background akin to the Java and Bedrock Editions. 
As of 1.0.16, the Nintendo Switch Edition has not received new feature updates, such as the Update Aquatic, Village & Pillage, Buzzy Bees, the Nether Update, Caves & Cliffs, and so on.
The Nintendo Switch Edition's most recent feature update is the World of Color Update. 
The Nintendo Switch 2 is backwards compatible with Nintendo Switch Edition; however, the game suffers from several stability issues that are not present when played on an original Nintendo Switch, specifically in worlds created on an original Nintendo Switch.


== Controls ==

In default settings, the controls are always displayed on the HUD. The controls for Nintendo Switch Edition are similar to Wii U Edition.


== Gameplay ==
Nintendo Switch Edition can be played in TV, handheld, and tabletop mode. The in-game username corresponds to the display name of the current Nintendo Switch user or users, which is changeable. The game is playable with a pair of Joy-Con or a Nintendo Switch Pro Controller. Because of the Nintendo Switch's 720p screen, splitscreen is available even in Tabletop Mode. The render distance in single player is 10 chunks in TV Mode and 7 chunks outside of TV Mode. Worlds from Wii U Edition can be transferred over a local network but cannot be loaded on the Nintendo Switch Edition, as Wii U Edition has Update Aquatic, while the Nintendo Switch Edition does not. Similarly to PlayStation Vita Edition, the network mode of the game can be switched between Online and Local - the latter enables ad-hoc local wireless multiplayer with nearby consoles running Nintendo Switch Edition.


=== DLC ===
The following DLC is included in Nintendo Switch Edition: 

Skin packs:
Battle & Beasts Skin Pack
Battle & Beasts 2 Skin Pack
Texture packs:
Natural Texture Pack
City Texture Pack
Fantasy Texture Pack
Mash-up packs:
Festive Mash-up
Super Mario Mash-up
Any additional DLC for Nintendo Switch Edition can be found on the Nintendo eShop. However, the "Season Pass" and nearly all Mini game DLC are absent on the Nintendo Switch Edition, even though they can be purchased on every other version of Legacy Console Edition, including the Wii U Edition. When asked about this during the Official Minecraft Livestream, it was stated that excluding Nintendo Switch Edition players from DLC is "kind of intentional." The only Mini game DLC available on the platform is the Valley Battle Map through the purchase of the Chinese Mythology Mash-Up Pack.


== Trailer ==


== Trivia ==
It had been announced that Nintendo Switch Edition would receive a physical release at a later date but never did. Mojang has since stated that the edition would "not be available for new purchase" after the release of Bedrock Edition on Nintendo Switch.
Due to Nintendo Switch Edition being replaced with Bedrock Edition, it remains the only version of Legacy Console Edition that did not receive a physical release.
While PlayStation Vita Edition did not receive a physical release in North America, instead having a digital code included in the box, other regions did get a physical cartridge.
After it was removed for purchase from the Nintendo eShop, as it is not possible to redeem codes for games that are no longer distributed, there is currently no way to purchase this edition, but it can still be viewed in the Nintendo eShop.
DLC has not been removed from Nintendo eShop and is still available for purchase. Upon purchase of the DLC, the player will be told to buy the game before using it, unless they already own the Nintendo Switch Edition.
Along with the other editions of Minecraft for Nintendo platforms and later with the Java Edition and Bedrock Edition for Windows bundle, Nintendo Switch Edition was the most expensive edition of Minecraft, as it was only sold in a bundle with several add-on packs.
All DLC included with Nintendo Switch Edition are the same as the Xbox One Edition Holiday Pack, except that the Nintendo-exclusive Super Mario Mash-Up Pack is included in place of the Halo Mash-Up Pack. The Halo Mash-Up Pack was Xbox-exclusive until it was later made available as DLC for the Wii U Edition and Nintendo Switch Edition on March 27, 2018.
Unlike the PlayStation 4 Edition and Xbox One Edition, no free demo of Nintendo Switch Edition was offered for download. The Wii U Edition did not have a demo available for download either.
Compared to Xbox One Edition and PlayStation 4 Edition, Nintendo Switch Edition has a lower render distance and has neither the Large world size nor the Amplified Worlds option. However, transferring a Java Edition-created Amplified world from the Wii U Edition will force new terrain to render with Amplified features enabled.
At launch, the maximum resolution in TV Mode was restricted to 720p because of technical difficulties with changing the resolution during gameplay. 1.0.6 resolved this and increased the maximum resolution to 1080p.
The Wii U save transfer functionality was added in 1.0.7, and unlike other versions of the Legacy Console Edition, it works over a local network.
Nintendo Switch Edition is the shortest-supported version of Minecraft, lasting only 58 weeks (or just over 13 months) before it was discontinued.
A Nintendo Switch edition-themed eShop gift card was released in Japan in 2017 containing ¥4000, the exact amount needed to purchase the game.
Nintendo Switch Edition was the only version of the Legacy Console Edition to be released without inlining (-fno-inline.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==