The Overworld Update is the name of the update for released on February 18, 2016 for Pocket Edition and Windows 10 Edition as alpha version v0.14.0.
The official name for the update, the Overworld Update, was revealed on February 10, 2016 in a blog post on the Xbox website.


== Notable features ==

New blocks
 Cauldron
Crafted using seven iron ingots.
Can be used to store water, even in the Nether.
The color of the water can be changed with a dye.
Dyes can be mixed.
Using leather armor on a colored water dyes the armor.
Can also be used to store potions.
If potions are mixed together, an explosion sound will be made and the potion disappears.
 Dispenser
Crafted using seven cobblestones, a redstone dust, and a bow.
Used to dispense items, with some having certain properties.
Does not show its name in the GUI.
 Dropper
Crafted using seven cobblestone and one redstone dust.
Will eject an item similar to a dispenser, but will not do any special functions that a dispenser would normally do, such as shooting an arrow.
Will also transfer items to a container when faced to it.
Does not show its name in the GUI.
 Hopper
Crafted using five iron ingots and a chest.
Used to collect items and drop them to a corresponding container.
Any container objects placed above the hopper will automatically have their items removed by the hopper.
Does not show its name in the GUI.
 Redstone Comparator
Crafted using three redstone torches, a nether quartz, and three stone.
Reads inputs from any adjacent blocks and sends an output.
Can also be used to compared redstone signals.
If signal A is stronger or equal to signal B, it repeats the signal or outputs the difference between singal A and B.
If signal A is weaker than signal B, no output is given.
 Redstone Repeater
Crafted using three stones, two redstone torches, and a redstone dust.
Repeats redstone signals back to full strength.'
Can be locked by another powered redstone repeater.
 Slime Block
Crafted using nine slimeballs.
Can also be crafted back into nine slimeballs.
Entities landing on the top spot of a slime block will bounce, negating fall damage.
Adjacent blocks near a slime block will move with it when the slime block is moved with a piston.
New red sandstone blocks:
 Red Sandstone
Found in mesa biomes.
Can also be crafted using four red sand.
 Red Sandstone Stairs
 Red Sandstone Slab
 Smooth Red Sandstone
 Chiseled Red Sandstone
New items
 Ender Pearl
Only available through modifications.
 Map
Crafted using nine paper.
Used to create a visual of the world.
Spawn egg:
 Witch Spawn Egg
New mobs
 Witch
Spawns in witch huts.
Throws splash potions of Poison, Slowness, Weakness, and Instant Damage at the player.
Will drink a potion of Instant Health and Fire Resistance to defend itself.
Has 80% immunity against splash potion effects.
Drops sticks, glowstone dust, redstone dust, gunpowder, sugar, spider eyes, or glass bottles when killed.
New non-mob entities
 Item Frame
Crafted using a piece of leather surrounded by sticks.
Used to display any item or blocks.
 Minecart with Chest
Crafted using a chest and a minecart.
Now spawns in mineshafts.
Used to store items that can be moved.
 Minecart with Hopper
Crafted using a hopper and a minecart.
Collects items from above when in motion.
 Minecart with TNT
Crafted using a TNT and a minecart.
Activates when over a powered activator rail.
Can also explode when hitting a nearby block.
New structures
 Witch hut
Found in swamps.
A witch can be found around the vicinity.
The cauldron contains a random potion.
Other additions
 Creative mode
Players now has access to the survival inventory and crafting tab.
Additionally armor can be put on.
Inventory is kept when switching game modes.
Various utility items can now interacted in Creative mode.
Notable changes
Various mobs, blocks, and items received changes.
Baby zombies now has a 15% chance of being a jockey, and can mount the following animals:
Chickens, ocelots, wolves, cows, pigs, sheep, spiders, and another zombie.
Villages now have increased door-to-villager ratios.
Moss stone boulders are rounder.


== Further revisions ==
Alpha v0.14.1 added the Minecraft: Story Mode skin pack.
Alpha v0.14.2 fixed some bugs and crashes from Alpha v0.14.1.
Alpha v0.14.3 added the Biome Settlers Pack 2 skin pack.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==