This page is a list of parity issues between Java and Bedrock editions. A parity issue is where one feature exists only in one edition of the game and not in the other (version exclusives), or the behavior of a feature differs between both editions.
Suggestions to fix existing parity issues prior to the Buzzy Bees update (Java Edition 1.15, Bedrock Edition 1.14.0) should be made on the feedback site or the feedback Discord.


== Note ==
Snapshot/beta features are listed only with {{Upcoming}} templates. Use the {{Until}} or {{Upcoming}} templates where applicable. Entries are not to be removed unless the changes came into the final release of the corresponding edition.

In the section "In Bedrock Edition but not in Java Edition", [until BE (version number)] or [upcoming: JE (version number)] means it is no longer the case and fixed in the provided version; and [until JE (version number)] or [upcoming: BE (version number)] means that it was in parity before, and no longer is starting from that version.
In the section "In Java Edition but not in Bedrock Edition", [until JE (version number)] or [upcoming: BE (version number)] means it is no longer the case and fixed in the provided version; and [until BE (version number)] or [upcoming: JE (version number)] means that it was in parity before, and no longer is starting from that version.
In the section "Unsorted", any [upcoming] means it is no longer the case and fixed in the provided version; likewise, any [until] means that it was in parity before, and no longer is starting from that version.
Entries along the lines of "this edition does not ..." are not added but are placed into the other edition's section instead.
Do not put the desired outcome in the parity issue – this list is intended only to list the parity issues, not how they should be resolved.
This page serves as a list of all parity issues. For a more descriptive overview of exclusive features in Bedrock Edition, see Bedrock Edition exclusive features.


== In Java Edition but not in Bedrock Edition ==


=== General ===
General

Support for macOS and Linux.
Animations

Items picked up are dragged upward to the player's body, rather than dragged to their feet.
Sprint-jumping displays the proper running animation in third person.
The damage tilt effect is directional; the screen turns to the opposite side of where the player was damaged from, rather than always turning to the left.
Controls

Cinematic Camera keybind.
Holding Q drops items rapidly.
Items with a right-click action can be used in the off-hand if the main hand has no right-click action.
F3 shows the debug screen.
F3+F4 shows the game mode switcher screen.
Middle-clicking an item copies the item into a stack in the Creative inventory.
Debug hotkeys.
Pressing F swaps the item to off-hand.
Sneak and sprint inputs can be switched between hold and toggle in the accessibility settings, which is only toggleable on touch controls in Bedrock Edition.
↹ Tab opens a menu of current online players.
Scrolling with the mouse changes the flying speed while in spectator mode.
Pressing F1 or hiding the GUI while wearing a carved pumpkin or looking through a spyglass removes the vignette.
Visuals

Clouds are visible from the inside.
Dark heart particles when dealing more than 2 damage to an entity.
Explosion particles have higher resolution.
Health bar flashes when taking damage or healing.
Particles and nametags render parallel to the screen.
Certain non-full blocks like slabs properly block lighting graphics.
Sunrise afterglow is visible during the rain.
Rain and snow particles can be disabled.
Gameplay

1.9 combat system.
Attack cooldown mechanic; different tools have different cooldowns
Axes deal more damage than swords
Different weapon damage and knockback mechanics
Off-hand slot can hold any item.
Chat is automatically opened when sleeping.
Death messages are more specific.
Health regenerates faster after eating food and filling saturation.
More Spectator mode functionality:
Ability to open the inventory, and see GUI such as crafting table or mobs such as horse.
Ability to spectate and see first-person view from a mob.
Has a hotbar GUI to choose and spectate a specific player.
When a stronger effect overwrites a weaker effect the weaker effect remains, but is hidden and returns after the stronger effect expires if the weaker effect had a higher duration.
When world spawn is obstructed, the player's spawn is on the block as close as possible that's not obstructed.
Default player spawn point radius is larger.
Interface

Mojangles font is more updated, supporting certain font emojis.
Can shift-click items into the crafting table interface.
Can double shift-click stacks of the same item into a chest by holding a stack of it and hovering on another.
Chat typing UI is a part of the HUD instead of a menu screen.
Chat UI size can be adjusted within the settings.
Chat text font size settings for Mojangles.
Chat delay options.
Creative inventory has 11 category sections instead of 4.
Creative search bar is immediately focused when the inventory is opened to the search tab. Taking an item fully selects the typed text, but leaves it focused so the user can immediately begin searching for something else.
Creative inventory has a "Destroy Item" option to clear the entire inventory.
Toolbars can be saved in the creative inventory.
Creative inventory has an operator utilities tab containing items not otherwise obtainable, available if cheats are enabled and the "Operator Items Tab" option in the controls menu is turned on.
Credits screen scroll can be speed up by holding Spacebar and also by holding Ctrl+Spacebar to make it even faster.
Command suggestions can be disabled in chat.
Main hand can be switched to the left hand.
Mouse cursor is re-centered when opening a GUI screen.
Off-hand slot visible in the HUD.
Experience level is positioned lower and has a black outline.
Raid boss bar is segmented.
Score on the death screen.
HUD is still visible when a GUI is opened.
Skin customization menu.
Social interactions screen.
Some recipes in the recipe book are grouped together.
The default panorama scroll speed is faster.
Reduce FPS can be toggled for screen minimized in addition to AFK.
§n underlines text.
Pause Menu & Options

Advancements instead of achievements.
Various exclusive advancements.
Are world-dependent and grant the player XP.
Can change resource packs while playing in a world.
Difficulty can be locked.
High Contrast and Programmer Art resource pack in the default game.
Language can be changed while in a world.
More accessibility options such as:
Distortion Effects.
FOV Effects is a slider rather than a toggle.
Monochrome Logo.
Panorama Scroll Speed.
Several additional languages.
Statistics.
World options:
Large biomes, single biome, amplified and debug world types.
Option to prevent structures from generating.
Customizable superflat layers.
Technical

Data packs instead of behavior packs.​[more information needed]
Block, item, function, and entity type tags.
Block and item tags are partially implemented as of beta 1.19.40.22.
Custom dimensions.
Customizable world border.
Full implementation of custom biomes.
Items and blocks can be remodeled, with various state predicates.
Loot tables have more functions.​[more information needed]
Lots of game translations are different and of higher quality, pulled from the translation strings from Crowdin instead of translating them with a small group of people.
More predicate options than Bedrock.​[more information needed]
Namespaced IDs.
Character set is limited to [a-z0-9_./-], the namespace itself cannot have /.
Everything in resource packs is namespaced.
List of registries are namespaced.
minecraft is implied if left out.
/ means directory everywhere, not just loot tables and functions.
Game rule have namespaced IDs and different naming scheme compared to Bedrock Edition, which uses camel case (e.g., locatorbar) instead of snake case (e.g., locator_bar). Additionally, some game rule names are different (e.g., advance_time in Java Edition and dodaylightcycle in Bedrock Edition).​[more information needed]
All paintings and particles are split up into 1 file per texture, rather than texture map, and can, therefore, be animated.
Predicate files.
Remote console (RCON)
Status effect amplifiers are saved to file as a byte, and in memory as an integer, meaning values above 127 overflow when the entity is saved to file.
Values below 0 are treated as 0.
LegacyRandomSource is incorrectly implemented.
Skins can be loaded on the launcher.
Older versions can be played through the launcher.
Modified versions can be played through the launcher.


=== World generation ===

Biomes

Azalea trees can generate with more tree shape and size variants.
Dripstone caves temperatures are warmer.
Lush caves temperatures are colder.
Dripstone caves and lush caves can overlap and blend into each other.
Meadows have a different temperature and grass color.
Cherry groves have a different grass and water color.
Jungles are less dense.
Some snowy biomes do not use the correct water color.
Oak and spruce trees can generate in windswept hills and windswept gravelly hills.
Solid terrain, structures, and biome generation can generate all the way to 2.147 billion blocks (if the hardcoded 30 million block limit is removed).
World border exists at the edge of the world.
Andesite, diorite and granite can replace deepslate and tuff during world generation.
Blackstone and basalt generate in big blobs in basalt delta biomes, which attempt to replace netherrack 25/75 times per chunk in blobs of radius 3—7 from levels 0 to 127.
Nether (crimson and warped) forests are much denser than in Bedrock Edition.
Spikes in basalt deltas are larger and more frequent.
Multiple End biomes exist.
Ravines can generate in the nether.
Monsters can spawn in river biomes.
Structures

Bastion loot chests frequently generate with gilded blackstone underneath.
Igloos always generate with a villager without profession (the villager picks a career upon seeing the nearby brewing stand or cauldron).
Jungle pyramids can generate in bamboo jungles.
Mineshafts are much more frequent.
The central room of a mineshaft never generates in the same chunk as (0, 0).
Mineshafts will never generate chest minecarts where they're exposed to caves.
Structures can spawn in superflat world type.
Stronghold prison cells generate with button-activated iron door.
Pillager outposts never generate near villages.
Only pillagers may spawn within a pillager outpost spawn area.
The chest in ruined portal structures may be replaced if terrain overrides it.


=== Blocks ===
General

Block entity IDs are namespaced.
Block outlines are partially transparent and thicker.
Breaking (not mining) particles start as the shape of the block and are colored based on its darkest face.
More blocks can support general support-needing blocks.
A waterloggable block between two water source blocks becomes waterlogged.
Ancient debris and netherite blocks can be destroyed by explosions while being moved by pistons.
Falling blocks drop as items after falling for more than 30 seconds. This is the only way of legitimately obtaining suspicious blocks.
Spawners and vaults render their back faces in the inventory.
All blocks that can be waterlogged cannot be destroyed by flowing lava.
Barrier and light block particles flicker and flash when many blocks are placed together.
Certain blocks' breaking animation is nearly invisible.
Cross models are stretched.
Ancient Debris

Can replace basalt and blackstone.
Azaleas

Mobs can spawn on top of azalea bushes.
Non-solid blocks that require support underneath can be placed on top of azalea bushes.
Banners

Banners with more than 6 patterns can be obtained through commands.
Have a breaking animation.
Ominous banners can be washed.
Beacons

Beam has an outer semitransparent layer.
It is possible to combine two different primary Level I beacon powers.
Beds

Can be placed without any supporting block.
Can be used from slightly further away.
Have a different model.
Multiple players can set their spawn point on a single bed.
Bedrock

Random texture rotation on the top.
Bee Nests and Beehives

Bees can exit if there is a non-full solid block in front.
Bees inside are calmed by campfire smoke through carpets.
Inventory tooltip shows amount of bees and honey inside.
Bells

Can be hung from any block that has a wide enough base, except for leaves and fence gates.
Hitting a bell during a raid applies the glowing effect to raiders within 32 blocks of it, and produces a unique sound when doing so.
Brewing Stand

Emits a light level of 1.
Produces bottle particles when broken regardless of whether there are bottles in it.
Bubble columns

Push entities slightly faster.
Buttons

Can face in all directions when on the top or bottom of a block.
Cakes

Cakes with candles have modified hitboxes and collisionboxes.
Candles

Can be extinguished by splash or lingering water bottles.
Can be placed underwater.
Can be placed on more blocks.
Campfires

Campfire smoke particles become more transparent as they get higher.
Calibrated sculk sensor

The top of the amethyst is stretched .
Carpets

Can be re-dyed with crafting.
If a mob stands on a double carpet layer, it stays perfectly still.‌
The tops of signs are visible when a carpet is placed on top.
Cartography tables

Show a preview of the map.
Cauldrons

Cauldrons containing fluids are considered by the game to be separate blocks from each other and from empty cauldrons.
You cannot drown in water cauldrons.
Cave air and void air

Exist.
Chests

Chests can be opened when a bottom slab is above it.
Have a Christmas present look during December 24th - 26th (including double chests).

Holding shift and double-clicking while holding an item moves all items of the type clicked on in or out of the chest.
Placement is different: when not sneaking, chests first try to connect left, then right; when sneaking, it tries to connect only to the clicked block.
Produces oak plank particles when breaking, walking or falling on it, rather than chest particles.
Two chests can be placed next to each other without creating a large chest by shift-clicking.
Cobwebs

A falling block that enters a cobweb slows down, then drops as an item after existing for 30 seconds.
Concrete powder

All variants have random texture rotation on top.
Dispensers

Have quasi-connectivity.
Have generally more functionality.
Can equip armor on villagers and wandering traders.
Can place armor stands.
Dispenser does not drop mob heads when a player is not in front of it.
Droppers

Have quasi-connectivity.
Enchanting table

More cryptic rune words can appear in the enchanting interface: phnglui, mglwnafh, cthulhu, rlyeh, wgahnagl, fhtagn, and baguette.
Ender chests

Produces obsidian particles when breaking, walking or falling on it, rather than ender chest particles.
Farmland

Partially transparent.
Small mobs cannot trample farmland.
Fence gates

Can support candles, torches, redstone torches, sea pickles, lanterns, and pressure plates on the top face.
Fire

Has a visible hitbox.
Produces more smoke particles.
Two planes in the fire model are defined incorrectly.
Flowers

Different flowers generate and grow when bone meal is used in different biomes.
Flower gradients are three dimensional.
Additional patches of lily of the valley are generated by a separate flower feature that does not follow the gradient and that cannot be regrown using bone meal.
Using bone meal on grass creates flowers in a larger area than in Bedrock Edition.
Wither roses can be planted on soul soil.
Dripstone cave and deep dark biomes use the same flower gradient as plains biomes.
Poppies generate in windswept hills, forests, birch forests, dark forests, jungles, taigas, snowy taigas, snowy plains, savannas, rivers, beaches, and oceans.
Dandelions generate in flower forests.
Flower pots

Can be placed without any supporting block.
Dirt inside has different position and texture.
Glass

Glass blocks adjacent to other glass blocks are invisible when viewed through glass that is identical in color.
Transmits redstone signals up, not down.
Glass panes

Support lanterns on top and bottom faces.
Support torches and pressure plates on the top face.
Glazed terracotta

Purple glazed terracotta has a slightly different texture.
Grass blocks

Grass spreading without player intervention depends heavily on the time of day.‌
To spread, the source grass block must have a light level of 9 or brighter directly above it.‌
Grindstones

Can float in midair without supporting blocks.
Hoppers

Push items in a consistent order, the first slot first.
If a hopper is part of a horizontal hopper pipe, a comparator can individually read each item passing through the chain, because items are pushed through the hoppers one by one at a speed that is manageable by the comparator.
If there is no container above the hopper, then the hopper collects dropped items in the order in which they landed on the hopper.
The checks done by a hopper while pulling generally require less processing than the checks done by a hopper attempting collection.
Hoppers inconsistently pick up diagonally moving items.
Heads

Custom player heads are available through commands with Component data that contains player skins.
The default player head has a different texture.
Ice

When a non-full block is placed on top of ice, the block has the same "slipperiness" as the ice below it.
Infested blocks

Break slower than their non-infested counterparts.
Have particles when silverfish spawns from infested blocks.
Can generate below y=0.
Can generate in slightly larger blobs.
Note blocks on infested blocks produce harp sounds instead of flute sounds.
Iron bars and copper bars

Support lanterns on top and bottom faces.
Support torches and pressure plates on the top face.
Jukeboxes

Multiple jukeboxes can play the same music disc.
Kelp

Animation is smoother.​[more information needed]
Can grow upwards into flowing water, converting it into a water source.
Ladders

Waterlogged ladders can be climbed.
Leaves

Leaves start decaying only when 7 blocks away from logs/wood.
Rain particles drip from leaves.
The state of a leaves block—including a player-placed block—changes after 1 game tick (half a redstone tick) when the distance to the nearest log or wood block changes, up to 6 blocks of leaves away.
Lecterns

Books on lecterns can be removed through the interface, rather than by punching the lectern.
A book with only 1 page gives maximum signal strength.
Levers

Emit redstone particles when powered.
Handle model is slightly longer.
When on the ground or ceiling, they can face in 4 directions.
Handle is shaded differently.
Looms

Have a unique texture for the dye slot.
Mangrove roots

Mobs can spawn on mangrove roots.
Redstone circuits can pass their power level through mangrove roots even when waterlogged.‌
Water does not spread out‌ from waterlogged mangrove roots.
Monster spawners

Render adjacent face to another spawner block.
Mobs are spawned with a 9x3x9 volume centered on the spawner, resulting in a rectangular-shaped volume where mobs can spawn.
A turtle monster spawner can spawn turtles only on sand blocks less than 4 blocks above sea level.
Using commands, monster spawners can be customized:
They can be made to spawn any kind of entity.
A single monster spawner can spawn multiple different entities, chosen at random from a list.
Properties can be set on the spawned entities.
Various range and timing properties of the monster spawner can be changed.
Moss blocks

Can spread on mud and muddy mangrove roots.
Mushroom blocks

Change to mushroom pores texture when next to another mushroom block of the same kind.
Have cap texture on all sides when placed.
Nether gold ore and Nether quartz ore

Twice as many generation attempts per chunk in basalt delta biomes.
Nether portal blocks

Lava buckets can be used to break Nether portal blocks by placing the lava on the side of a block next to the portal block.
Sides don't render when exposed.
Nether wart blocks

Have a slightly different texture.
Netherrack

Bonemealing netherrack emits large field of particles instead of just above the block.
Note blocks

After activating the note block, it sends a block update immediately and plays a sound after start delay.
Plays notes more consistently.
Nylium

Decays into netherrack when a snow layer is placed on top of it.
Using bone meal on nylium spreads nether vegetation to plantable blocks.
Observers

Can detect certain more block changes.
Nearby tree growth causes logs to trigger observers.
Obsidian

If a nether portal is generated midair, 4 extra obsidian is generated at the bottom of the portal.
Takes longer to mine than in Bedrock Edition.
Pink petals

Can generate when bone meal is applied to a grass block in cherry groves.
Pistons

Have quasi-connectivity.
Pushing a block over farmland/dirt path does not convert it to dirt if the base block wouldn't.
Plants

Crops require a light level of 8 or greater to be planted and will break if the light level is less.
Crops won't grow at light level 8.
Crops can be planted by aiming at the side or bottom of a block.
Pointed dripstone

Can fill cauldrons if there are open trapdoors, ladders, or any blocks with no collision box between the dripstone and the cauldron.
Stacked stalactites deal multiplied damage on entities.
Visible on maps.
Small pointed dripstone cannot be placed on hoppers.
Some blocks that require support can be placed on pointed dripstone.
Pointed dripstone does not produce shadows.
Powder snow

Makes breaking particles when picked up with a bucket.
Using a spawn egg on powder snow spawns the mob inside the block.
Pumpkins

Drop 4 seeds when carved instead of 1.
Rails

Lone rails are always placed in the direction the player is facing.
Most mobs avoid walking on rails.
Red sandstone

Red sandstone can rarely generate in badlands and eroded badlands.
Redstone comparators

Accepts side input from redstone blocks.
Having a sign in the same block as an item frame prevents the frame from sending a signal to a comparator.
If the solid block is powered to signal strength 15, then the comparator outputs 15, no matter the fullness of the container.
Saplings and propagules

Growth is not blocked by logs and stripped logs.
Giant spruce trees have different space requirements.
Potted mangrove propagule has a different model.
More spruce variants can grow from saplings.
Scaffolding

Can be placed inside lava.
Bottom of floating scaffolding can be stood on.
Sculk catalysts

Can spread when a frog eats a slime or a magma cube.
Sculk sensors

Can detect events, such as:
More blocks and entities being placed and removed.
Players jumping on top of pointed dripstone.
Horses kicking.
Don't detect vibrations from other sculk blocks or wardens.
Sea pickles

Can be created by using bone meal on coral blocks.
Don't need to be placed on full blocks.
Seagrass

Animation is smoother.
Textures are mirrored differently.
Shulker boxes

Can't open if obstructed by a shulker.
Signs and hanging signs

Lines can be navigated using the up and down keys.
Signs can be created with JSON text, which allows complex formatting (colors, bold, italic, etc.), hover and click events, localized translation, and the incorporation of scoreboard values into text.
Sounds for crimson and warped hanging signs are different.
Slime blocks

Don't render adjacent face to another slime block.
Snow

Falling blocks destroy snow.
Mycelium and podzol with snow on top have the snowy grass block side texture.
The number of snowballs dropped upon breaking is always the same as the number of layers present.
Stairs

Torches, buttons, and levers can be placed on two back sides of corner stairs.
Walls, fences, iron bars, and glass pane connects correctly to corner stairs.
Sticky pistons

A sticky piston spits out its block when given a 1 tick pulse, instead of retracting the block like on Bedrock Edition.
Have quasi-connectivity.
Structure blocks

Data mode, unusable by players but used by developers.
Can be accessed only by clicking the mode button while holding the Alt key.
The default mode are set on Load.
Structure void

Can be moved and broken by pistons.
Sweet berry bush

Can be planted when aiming at the side of a block.
Absorb fall damage like water.
Tall grass

Can be produced by using bone meal on grass blocks.​[upcoming: BE 26.20]
Targets

Can detect more projectiles such as ender pearls, bottle o' enchanting, fireworks rockets, and fishing bobbers.
Test blocks and test instance blocks

Exist.
Torches, soul torches, copper torches, and redstone torches

Torch placement depends on solid face, not a solid block.
Wall torches have a rectangular model, rather than pipelined.
TNT

After teleporting through a Nether portal, primed TNT cannot destroy nether portal blocks.
There are some circumstances where TNT can be made to destroy blocks underwater.
Primed TNT can pass through cobwebs without slowing down if shot through fast enough.
Trapdoors

Can be climbed like ladders when placed on top of ladders.
Waterlogged trapdoors prevent water from flowing through their solid faces.
Trial spawners

Trial spawners only check if parent slimes/magma cubes are killed.
Tripwire

Can be activated by vexes.
Turtle eggs

Can be placed without any supporting block.
Breaking in Creative mode removes all eggs.
Vaults

Every vault has an 80% chance to include a set of rare loot, rather than only 20%.


=== Fluids ===
General

Animation is faster.
Fluids do not snap to blocks above them in certain cases, causing undesirable gaps.
Lava

Lava produces smoke particles when turned into obsidian.
Water

Ocean biome water colors are more clearly distinct between different temperatures.
Underwater render distances aren't limited and can be changed in the settings.
Water pushing strength is based on water height: a source block or high flowing water pushes players and mobs faster than shallow flowing water.


=== Items ===
General

Ability to select and click to move the cursor when editing signs, written books, etc.
Changing held item (scrolling through hotbar or picking up an item) resets mining progress.
Dropped stacked items are more compact.
Food items are positioned higher on the screen when consumed.
Highlighted slots show a transparent gray overlay above the item and slot.
Holding ⇧ Shift and double-clicking while holding an item moves all items of the type clicked on in or out of a block's inventory.
Light blocks, structure void and minecarts with command block use a purple/magenta colored tooltip as they are Creative-only items.
Renaming a mob bucket with an anvil renames the mob in the bucket.
If a named mob is captured with a bucket of water, the resulting bucket shares a name with the captured mob.
Tools take longer to draw.
When dragging items into multiple slots, the slots are highlighted beneath the item texture. When the distribution is even, the empty remainder is not shown.
The player can enchant any item with any enchantment in Creative mode.
Enchanted items glow in the dark.
Items thrown in lava don't bounce.
Armor

Leather armor can be dyed by crafting dyes with a piece of leather armor.
Book and quills and written books

Can be written up to 100 pages in a single book, instead of 50.
Displays one page at a time instead of two.
Supports up to 1023 characters per page instead of 256.
Carpets and wool

Can be used as fuel.
Debug sticks

Exist.
Elytra

Stays activated while in water.
Fishing rods

Can reel in items.
Have a thicker casting line.
When held, it has a newer holding position in first person view.
When used, it has a different item model without the hook. 
The player has a longer window of time to reel in a catch.
Firework stars

Colorless firework star is available in the Creative inventory.
Glass bottle

Can be filled with water by using it on a waterlogged block.
Knowledge books

Exist.
Maces

A boat or minecart hit by a mace is instantly destroyed without decreasing the mace's durability.
Maps

Map markers can be added by right-clicking a banner with a map.
Milk buckets

The benefits of area status effects granted by beacons and conduits are restored after a delay of a few seconds after drinking milk.
Potions

Potions, splash potions, lingering potions and tipped arrows of luck exist.    
Uncraftable potions, splash potions, lingering potions and tipped arrows exist.    
All potions used the old potion bottle textures when using the programmer art resource pack.
Shields

Can be activated without sneaking.
Spectral arrows

Exist.
Spyglass

Effect particles are invisible when looking through spyglass.
Tipped arrows

It is possible to craft tipped arrows using lingering water bottles as well as Awkward, Thick, and Mundane lingering potions. If crafted with a water bottle, the arrow is called an arrow of Splashing. If crafted with Mundane, Awkward, or Thick potions, it is called a tipped arrow. 
Some tipped arrows have different textures.
Totem of undying

Does not prevent death caused by an arrow of harming if the arrow kills the holder with just the arrow's physical damage, as the arrow's Instant Damage effect is applied after the totem has activated, effectively killing the player a second time.
Totem of undying animation uses a 3D item render, instead of 2D.
Tridents

Loyalty tridents immediately return to the player after hitting a mob instead of falling to the ground and then returning.
Riptide tridents take one durability damage upon throwing.


=== Entities ===
General

Cramming too many entities into a small space causes some of them to take 3HP suffocation damage every half second.
Crossbow Piercing arrows to pierce armor stands.
Explosions deal damage to entities while in water.
Humanoids render all items in the head slot.
Mobs can hold items in their off-hand.
Mobs drop experience orbs and loot at kill location.
Mobs drop their exact equipment, rather than drawing from the loot table.
Mobs have an 11% chance to spawn left-handed (their left hand being their main hand).
Mobs in their death animation still have their hitbox (potentially obstructing attacks on mobs behind it).
Mobs suffocate inside of dirt path or farmland.
Entities riding other entities can travel through portals and be teleported by chorus fruits.
Most entities can be made to ride most other entities with commands.
If a mount is immune to falling damage, the damage is not passed to passengers.
Mobs still count toward the mob cap during their death animation.
Neutral mobs don't alert other mobs of the same type if killed in one hit.
Leash knots, paintings and item frames do not have outlines when targeted.
Allays

Have slightly faster health regeneration.
Animals

Many passive mobs spawn in larger groups and require higher light levels to spawn.
Passive mobs spawn much less often and do not despawn.
Armor stands

A renamed armor stand keeps its custom name when broken.
Armor stands can be customized further to have arms, pose, disobey gravity and dual wield using the summon command.
Armor stands can be made invisible or used as markers by setting Component tags.
Can be given custom names with an anvil.
Can be placed by dispensers.
Players take damage from hitting an armor stand wearing armor enchanted with Thorns.
Summoning an armor stand with no health causes the death animation.
Can be knocked back by items with the knockback enchantment.
Armor stands do not break when attacked by a mob's melee attack.
Arrows

If an arrow hits another player, the player that shoots the arrow hears a high-pitched "ding" sound.‌
An arrow slows down if shot through water, reducing its damage to near zero unless brought back into the air or otherwise given momentum.‌
Arrows can get visually stuck in players. 
Bats

Bats' collision boxes do not interact with the player or redstone components.
Can spawn in badlands, beach, cherry grove, desert, dripstone caves, frozen ocean, frozen peaks, frozen river, grove, ice spike, jagged peaks, lush caves, mangrove swamp, meadow, mushroom fields, pale garden, river, snowy beach, snowy plains, snowy slopes, stony peaks, stony shore and wooded badlands.
Bees

Stingers can get visually stuck in players they attack. 
Wings move faster.
Bee idle animation is different.
Blazes

Alert other blazes when attacked.
Don't avoid fire and lava.
Boats

A sunken boat cannot be re-floated until a bubble column pushes it up.
Boats falling on top of an entity stops on top of the entity.
Being in a boat limits the player's mouse-look by a smaller amount (a 210 degree arc instead of a 180 degree arc).
Have a slower and smoother paddling animation.
Mobs riding a boat don't despawn.
Tools and weapons that deal more than 4 damage can destroy a boat in one hit.
Boats do not block the rendering of seagrass or kelp.
Breezes

The eyebrows and surrounding wind remain visible under the invisibility effect.
Cats

Have an animation when they lie on a bed, even when players are not sleeping.
Can purr multiple times while lying on a bed.
Hiss at phantoms that are currently pursuing a player, and at other mobs when they attack their owners.
Multiple cats can give gifts to a player at once.
Any cats to spawn within a swamp hut (from spawn eggs and commands without cat type set) always spawn as black.
Chickens

More common in jungles.
Creepers

Animation colors are smoother.
Can be ignited with fire charges.
If exploded with a status effect, leaves a lingering cloud of that effect.
Spawn in groups instead of individually.
Dolphins

Attack the player less often while angered.
Can play with item entities.
Don't alert other dolphins if killed in one hit.
Drowned

Doesn't have a trident throwing animation.
Elder guardians and guardians

Guardians spawn less often in ocean open to the sky than they do in covered areas.
Immediately after spawning and once each minute thereafter, the elder guardian searches for any player within a spherical radius of 50 blocks to afflict with Mining Fatigue.
Killing it while on fire drops cooked fish.
The image of the elder guardian is a particle effect that can be recreated by issuing the command /particle minecraft:elder_guardian.
End crystals

An End crystal's explosion can be blocked by a shield.
End crystals can still destroy blocks even with mob griefing disabled.
If damaged by an explosion, they disappear instead of exploding.
Endermen

Arrows appear to bounce off an enderman who is unable to teleport.
Endermen can't be attacked with projectiles if they are in a boat or minecart.
If all available blocks within teleport distance are removed or unavailable as a destination, it is possible to hit endermen with a projectile.
Players can summon an enderman holding any block by using /summon with added NBT data.
Endermites

Alert other endermites when attacked.
Spawn at the player's original position when an enderpearl lands.
Ender dragon

Entities hit by its wings are thrown into the air.
Flies toward the exit portal structure before dying.
Killing it using /kill command would skip the death animation.
Its wings are animated at a higher frame rate.
Dragon fireball has a different texture.
Evokers

Summon vexes more quickly.
Experience orbs

Are collected slower.
Are partially transparent (translucent).
Drop instantly on death.
Firework rockets

Explode when colliding with an entity.
3 generic colorless firework rockets with different flight durations are available in the Creative inventory.
Foxes

Eat ominous bottles.
Frogs

Bob at the surface of the water.
Constantly try to leave the water.
Ghasts

Cannot spawn in soul sand valleys if another ghast is within 16 blocks of spherical distance to the intended spawning location.
Target players within 64 blocks horizontally and 4 blocks vertically, and continue attacking as long as they are within a 64 block sphere and have line of sight.
Ghast fireballs do not set entities on fire.
Giants

Exist. 
Hoglins

Are afraid of warped fungus in flower pots.
Knockback entities.
Husks

Are more common relative to zombies in the biomes where they spawn, and spawn in larger numbers at once.
Illusioners

Exist.
Illagers

Any illagers, ravagers, or witches that did not spawn with the patrol can join the patrol if sufficiently near a patrol captain.
Can open doors (except pillagers).
Move door by door killing all villagers, rather than wander around the village without focus.
Pillagers and vindicators spawned from spawn eggs or monster spawners have a chance of spawning as a captain.
Pillagers, vindicators and ravagers can call for help when attacked.
Pillagers and vindicators move at different speeds when wandering and attacking.
Evoker and witch robes are slightly different on the bottom.
Iron golems

Produce particles when walking.
Item frames

Are entities, allowing to occupy the same space as non-solid block or other item frames.
Can be instantly broken by simply punching it.
Remembers the orientation of the last item it held, and uses it for the next item it holds.
Jockeys
 

If a zombie villager chicken jockey is cured, then the villager continues riding the chicken even after it grows up.
Killer bunny

Exists. 
Leads

Leads do not break when one end of the lead is in an unloaded chunk.
Leads do not drop when mobs are unleashed in Creative mode.
Llamas

Trader llamas attack zombies and illagers.
Magma cubes

Can swim in lava.
With commands, the size of magma cubes can be customized.
Minecarts

A cart traveling downhill does not collide with a block in front of it.
Boats and saddled pigs can be captured by minecarts.
Can be merged.​[more information needed]
Have a lower velocity (go slower) when underwater.
Mobs in minecarts don't count toward the mob cap.
Minecarts with furnace

Exists. 
Minecarts with monster spawner

Exists. 
Minecarts with TNT

Can destroy rails and the blocks rails are on if it is not on those rails, otherwise doesn't destroy the rail track it is on.
Has an explosion and destroy blocks as big as a normal TNT block.
Paintings

Preset paintings are available in the Creative inventory.
Paintings can be placed on cobwebs.
Pandas

Unique unhappy panda animation. 
Piglins

Baby piglins are "mischievous" and try to steal items from players.
Baby piglins have a higher pitch than regular piglins when converting into their zombified counterparts.
Can break their crossbow.
Can spawn in higher light levels.
Drops any held bartering item upon being zombified.
Have a 25% chance of spawning as a baby instead of 5%.
Need 6 seconds to barter, rather than 8.
Picked-up items always drop with the same durability as when picked up.
Swing their arms to throw items after bartering.
Switch their weapon for a better weapon, if available.
Can pick up and wear piglin heads.
Pillagers

Arm textures are correctly rotated.
Can break their crossbow.
Can launch fireworks from their crossbows if given them with commands.
Targets enemies up to 64 blocks away instead of 16.
Players

Can have semi-transparent textures on the second skin layer.
Walking backward makes the body face straight, rather than turned partially.
Players have a very slightly larger jump height.
Players that stop flying drift a few blocks in the air.‌
Polar bear

Attacking an adult polar bear near a cub provokes other adult polar bears.
Pufferfish

Can't deal damage in Peaceful mode.
Small pufferfish move their fins when swimming.
Medium pufferfish have a different model.
All pufferfish sizes have a swimming animation instead of only the smallest size.
Rabbits

Always drop one raw rabbit when killed.
Can spawn in old growth pine taiga and old growth spruce taiga.
Skeletons

Detection range is reduced to 8 blocks while the player wears a skeleton mob head.
Skeletons holding tipped arrows in their offhand causes them to shoot that type of arrow; these arrows are not consumed.
Strafe in circular patterns to dodge attacks and retreat to a safe range if the player comes within 4 blocks. They can walk off cliffs while strafing.
Sprint toward the player if they are 14 blocks away or farther.
Use bows even underwater. The water slows down the arrows.
Skeleton horses

Have inventories and can be equipped with saddles.
Slimes

With commands, the size of slimes can be customized.
Spiders

Can climb magma blocks.
Can spawn with status effects on Hard difficulty.
Spawn in groups.
Squid and glow squid

Can swim against flowing water currents.
Do not rotate 90 degrees upon death.
Glow squid can spawn in badlands, eroded badlands, mushroom fields and wooded badlands.
Striders

Drops are affected by the looting enchantment.
When rider a strider, the camera bobs up and down in first person mode.
Tropical fish

Can spawn with black as their base color.
Undead

Undead mobs have a chance to spawn with carved pumpkins and jack o' lanterns on their head during Halloween.
Zombies, zombie villagers, husks, drowned, and zombified piglins have a new animation for their arms when chasing a player.
Zombies and zombie variants seek and destroy turtle eggs from a greater distance.
Skeletons and skeleton variants have a bow charging animation.
Villagers

Give players gifts related to their profession. Baby villager give players poppies or wheat seeds, while nitwits and unemployed villagers just give wheat seeds.
Display angry particles when a panda is attacked by a nearby player.
Walk up to the job site block or bed in order to claim it, rather than claim it from a distance.
Librarian's book and quill trade is always discounted to 1.
Villagers can trample farmland.
Gold ingots/emeralds trades with clerics give 10XP instead of 2XP
Nitwits and unemployed villagers grunt and shake their heads when the player tries to trade with them.
Vindicators

Johnny vindicators attack ravagers they are riding.
Vindicators have a slightly different model and texture.
Wandering traders

Can despawn when riding other mobs.
Wardens

Have bigger shadow to match its size.
Wardens prioritize vibrations produced by redstone machines over vibrations produced by players.
Roar animation is different.
Can be pushed by explosions.
Wither skeletons

Wither skeletons with bows shoot flaming arrows.
Wither skeletons can pick up shields.
Wither skeletons flee from wolves like normal skeletons.
Wither skulls

Can be summoned with commands.
Zoglins

Fling entities into the air.
Zombies

Can spawn in zombie sieges.
Can spawn additional zombies as a part of "reinforcements".
Killing burning zombies has a chance to drop baked potatoes.
Zombie villagers

Can spawn naturally with armor equipped.
Don't despawn if previously traded with as a villager.
Igloo zombie villagers are always clerics.
Properly wears helmet at the correct height.
Zombified piglins

Can break down doors.
Deaths of hostile zombified piglins always register as kills by the player they are targeting.
Forgiveness timer ranges from 20 to 55 seconds, instead of always 25.
Players can sleep near neutral zombified piglins.
Zombified piglins spawned by nether portals can't go through the portal for a duration of time after spawning.
The angry sound is played twice the speed of the original sound file in the game.


=== Effects ===
General

Beacon and conduit effects produce less particles than normal status effect particles.
Effect icons stick to the top of the screen, with 2 rows: positive and negative effects.
Effect particles spread outward diagonally of players instead of upward vertically only.
Strength/Weakness has +3/-4 attack damage, rather than 130%/-0.5.
Bad Luck and Luck

Exist. 
Blindness

The sun and moon can be seen during clear weather when under the blindness effect.
Dolphin's Grace

Exists.
Glowing

Exists.
Health Boost

Losing this extra health causes the player's view to jolt as if taking damage, even in Creative or Spectator mode.
Instant Damage, Instant Health and Saturation

Have effect icons.
Jump Boost

Negative levels decrease jump height and increase fall damage.
Levitation

Negative levels cause the entity to float downward, overriding the usual falling due to gravity.
Water Breathing

The oxygen bar is refilled when you consume some oxygen and get water breathing effect.


=== Enchantments ===
General

Enchantment glint is higher resolution and smoother.
Blast Protection

Reduces knockback from explosions.
Fortune

Affects sea lanterns.
Different results when used on crops.
Frost Walker

Path draws as a circle rather than a square.
Works only if the entity wearing Frost Walker boots is on the ground.
Multishot

Higher levels of Multishot (only available through commands) further increase the number of arrows shot by the crossbow, adding two additional arrows per level, each spread by a further 10° horizontally.
Quick Charge

If commands are used to increase the enchantment level to level 5,‌ the crossbow loads instantly when used. Beyond level 5 the crossbow does not load at all.
Soul Speed

Changes the player's field of view.
Sweeping Edge

Exists.


=== Commands ===
/attribute
/ban, /ban-ip, /banlist, /pardon, /pardon-ip, /setidletimeout, /stop, /whitelist and /publish
/bossbar
Saved to file.
Functionality implemented for all subcommands, not just add.
/clear does not delete an item held by the cursor.
/data
/debug
/defaultgamemode
/dialog
/fillbiome
/item replacing /replaceitem
/locate functionality:
Can locate nether fossils.
Can locate desert temples, jungle temples, igloo, and swamp hut individually.
Can locate structure variants (e.g. biome variants of villages) individually.
Can locate Point of Interest.
/random
/seed
/swing
/team
/teammsg
/tick
/schedule function
/scoreboard players enable <entity> <trigger>
/spectate
/stopwatch
/trigger
/waypoint
/worldborder
NBT access.
Block state access.
More scoreboard objectives:
air
armor
deathCount
food
health
killedByTeam.<color>
level
playerKillCount
teamKill.<color>
totalKillCount
trigger
xp
/kill command can kill players in creative mode.
Gamerules:​[more information needed]
allowEnteringUsingNetherPortals
allowFireTicksAwayFromPlayer
blockExplosionDropDecay
commandModificationBlockLimit
disableElytraMovementCheck
disablePlayerMovementCheck
disableRaids
doPatrolSpawning
doTraderSpawning
doVinesSpread
doWardenSpawning
enderPearlsVanishOnDeath
forgiveDeadPlayers
globalSoundEvents
lavaSourceConversion
logAdminCommands
maxEntityCramming
minecartMaxSpeed
mobExplosionDropDecay
playersNetherPortalCreativeDelay
playersNetherPortalDefaultDelay
reducedDebugInfo
snowAccumulationHeight
spawnMonsters
spectatorsGenerateChunks
universalAnger
waterSourceConversion
Particle IDs are much more streamlined, and some support additional parameters.
Raw JSON text format

"text" takes priority over "translate".
"bold"
"clickEvent"
"change_page"
"copy_to_clipboard"
"open_file"
"open_url"
"run_command"
"suggest_command"
"color"
"extra"
Parents boldness, click event, color, font, hover event, insertion, italicness, obfuscation, strikethrough, and underlining.
[1,2,3] is an alias for {"text":"1","extra":[{"text":"2"},{"text":"3"}]}.
"font"
"hoverEvent"
"show_entity"
"show_item"
"show_text"
"insertion"
"italic"
"keybind"
"nbt"
"block"
"entity"
"interpret"
"storage"
Usable in signs, tellraw and title
Can also be set in item name and lore via loot tables.
"obfuscated"
"strikethrough"
"underlined"


=== Sounds ===
In Java Edition, up to 255 sounds can be played at once but general sounds can take only 247 slots, with mood slots taking the remaining 8 slots. In Bedrock Edition, up to 32 sounds can be played at the same time.
Anvil sound when placing a bell, instead of stone sound.
Correct sounds for placing bee nest/bee hive.
Correct sounds for horizontal chains.
Sound range is greater.
Sounds for burning items/entities into a lava cauldron.
Sounds for breaking and placing gilded blackstone are newer.
Sounds for combat (such as critical hit) are newer.
Sounds for converting zombies to drowned.
Sounds for casting a fishing rod are newer.
Sounds for crossbow loading ends.
Sounds for dolphin attacking, jumping and playing with items.
Sounds for emptying item frames in Creative mode.
Sounds for hurting shulker while closed.
Sounds for killing salmon.
Sounds for killing cod.
Sounds for minecart moving underwater.
Sounds for opening and closing a chest are newer.
Sounds for placing all crop types are newer.
Sounds for placing and breaking kelp and seagrass are newer.
Sounds for placing and breaking coral, coral blocks and coral fans are newer.
Sounds for placing lily pads.
Sounds for pufferfish are newer.
Sounds for rain are newer.
Sounds for Riptide enchantment are newer.
Sounds for reeling in a fishing rod.
Sounds for tilling grass blocks with a hoe are newer.
Unique sounds for harvesting honey.
Unique sounds for paddling/rowing in boats.
More sounds for many features added in 1.21.
"Floating Dream" plays louder in lush caves.
Amethyst breaking and placing sounds are incorrectly pitched.


== In Bedrock Edition but not in Java Edition ==


=== General ===
General

Support for ChromeOS and Mobile/Console platforms.
Can be launched using desktop shortcuts in addition to the launcher, which also allows Quick Play and launch protocols.
Is purchased, downloaded, updated, and managed from the platform's app store in addition to the Minecraft Launcher and the Xbox app on Windows.
Allows signing in and downloading updates during startup on Windows.
Can be launched without signing in.
Add-ons, skin packs, worlds, and world templates can be zipped into dedicated file extensions which can be imported automatically in the game.
Minecraft Preview exists as separate app for development versions.
Exclusive features include a debug overlay at the top of the screen and toggleable Ore UI menu screens.
Bedrock Editor
Featured servers
In-game live events

Animations

Default and character creator skins blink occasionally.
Items shrink when picked up.
Players can equip and execute emotes obtained from the Marketplace or achievements.
Player's arm is animated when charging a crossbow in first person.
Player's arm is animated when eating food or drinking potions in third person.
Switching to the same item plays the item switching animation.
The animation of snow and rain is angled.
When eating or drinking, the item being consumed is held differently in first person.
When in first person, the player's hand and held items move at the maximum speed when moving the camera and do not scale with head-turning speed like in Java Edition.
When not moving, the hand/held item sways up and down to imitate breathing in first person.
Camera position while sneaking is different.
Sneaking does not wobble the screen when View Bobbing is enabled
Graphical

Uses anti-aliasing, configurable in the settings.
Ambient lighting is tinted red at sunrise and sunset.
Clouds are more vibrant and tinted red at sunset and sunrise.
Simple clouds in Bedrock Edition are also opaque, but remain three-dimensional.
Clouds are limited to the render distance outside of Vibrant Visuals.
Lightning changes color from white to orange at sunset, and appears brighter during the daytime.
Disabling view bobbing completely stops the player's hand and held items from swaying.
Option for enabling a paper doll of the player in the top left corner of the screen.
Ray Tracing.
Render distance fog is thicker and smoother.
Sky color during the rain is gray, rather than bluish-gray.
Sky color is more affected by vertical position.
There are variable amounts of rain/snowfall (Java Edition has only the "medium" variant).
During precipitation the sun and moon remain visible in biomes without rain or snow.
The sun and the moon disappear after a period of time after sunset and sunrise respectively.
When looking directly at the sun, the environment around it becomes darker.
Block selection boxes are less precise.
Held items are positioned differently.
The skybox is rendered higher than in Java Edition.
Vibrant Visuals.
Scraping and waxing copper particles appear to fade in instead of instantly appearing.
Biome particles instantly disappear once the player travels too far.
View bobbing looks different from Java Edition.
Explosion particles are more pixelated.
Screen effects

Suffocating in a block shows a cube model of that block around the player's head, rather than only one side of the block's texture across the entire screen.
The same is applied when stepping into a Nether portal and being on fire, the latter is locked around the point of view.
All screen effects except the vignette are visible with the HUD hidden.
The elder guardian in the Mining Fatigue effect is animated and shortly waits in the middle of the screen.
Gameplay

In Creative mode the player is completely invulnerable, including from the /kill command and the Void.
Block outline on double blocks (such as doors, beds and tall grass) is connected.
Block placing speed matches player movement speed.
Block reach and attack reach is greater.
Blocks can be placed right in front of the block the player stands on.
Blocks can be placed continuously using hold click/button.
Elytra flight can be disabled by pressing jump button while gliding.
Food can be eaten in Peaceful difficulty.
Lightning strikes closer to the player more often than in Java Edition, due to spawn distance limits.
Some Minecraft Education features, such as Chemistry features, can be enabled in the Cheats options.
Using /kill shows which entities got killed, instead of how many.
When respawning at the world spawn point, because the bed or respawn anchor was broken or obstructed, different chat messages are shown, depending on whether the player used a bed or respawn anchor before.
When a player creates a new world, the world spawn point is restricted to specific biomes.
Unique death messages for being killed by llama spit and shulker bullet projectiles.
Hunger drains faster when taking damage than in Java Edition.
Pick blocking items can replace weapons/tools on hotbar.
Interface

Achievements instead of world-depending advancements.
An "X" close button in each in-game GUI (except Signs GUI).
Ore UI.
A Halloween themed panorama during Halloween seasons.
A message appears if a raid ends after 2 in-game days.
"Craftable" toggle in the recipe book shows all recipes the player has at least one ingredient of.
Any recipe can be found through the search bar, even recipes the player has not unlocked yet.
Character creator.
Chat messages appear in the top-left of the screen rather than in the bottom-left.
Chat text color can be changed in the settings.
Exclusive panorama with Vibrant Visuals.
Pressing ↵ Enter opens the chat by default in addition to pressing T.
Mentions of player names are highlighted in yellow in chat.
Mentions text color can be changed in the chat settings.
Pasting command in the chat with a newline automatically sends the command without pressing ↵ Enter.
There are two fonts available to choose from for the chat: Mojangles and Noto Sans.
Unicode font is sized differently.
The at symbol (@) can be used to give a list of players in chat.
Certain emojis appear as icons in-game, such as the hunger and armor icons.
Many more color codes for in-game materials exist.
Different highlights across editions.
Button highlights are green, rather than white as in Java Edition.
Slot highlights are also green, rather than white.
Slot highlights are the same size as the slot itself, rather than being smaller as in Java Edition.
Exclusive splash texts.
Help button to open the encyclopedia menu in the crafting table, smithing table, loom, and villager trading GUI.
Loading tips.
Marketplace.
Add-Ons, Resource Packs, Skin Packs, and Worlds are available to download in-game (for Minecoins or real money).
Opening GUIs have an animation.
This can be turned off in the options menu.
Quick moving items in the GUI has an animation.
Selecting an item in any interface enlargens it.
Seed templates in the Create New World screen.
Selecting an enchanted item shows all enchantments in the action bar.
Server list has featured servers.
Skins can support up to 128x128 resolution.
Status effects are listed in their own GUI tab, which can be accessed by pressing Z.
Text background has slightly more rounded corners.
World option and gamerule to display coordinates and number of in-game days played.
Crafting grid is present in the creative inventory.
Saving world indicator looks different.
Enable game pause option exists.
Player leaves sneaking mode when pausing the game.
Minecraft logo on title screen becomes oversized at certain resolutions.
It´s not possible to see more commands with scroll.
Certain Characters are cut off in the UI.
Unable to collect achievement rewards on PlayStation.
Achievement notification doesn't pop up.
Animated blocks stop their animation in the pause menu. 
World file sizes are displayed in select world list.
"<name> joined the game" appears for the user when joining a server.
Standalone loading screens display the logo.
Language

Generated structures have display names/translations.
Petrified Oak Slab is called "Wooden Slab".
Spruce items are translated as "pine" in Russian.
Russian translations of End Portal Frame, Enderman Spawn Egg, and Endermite Spawn Egg are incorrect.
Russian translation of Dripstone Block is incorrect.
Russian translation of Redstone Lamp is incorrect.
Russian translations of Decorated Pot differ between editions.
Brazilian Portuguese translations of various items and blocks are inconsistent with Java Edition.
Ukrainian translation of Bedrock Edition is of low quality.
Bucket of tropical fish is called "Bucket of [<color 1> - [<color 2>]] <tropical fish name>".
Implemented differently in Java Edition to be more translation-friendly.
Bucket of axolotl is called "Bucket of <Baby/Adult> <Color> Axolotl".
Realms

Has a separate subscription for 2-player servers at half the price.
Realms Plus includes the Marketplace Pass.
Realms includes the Realms Celebration Map.
Realms Stories
Allows add-ons and experiments to be enabled.
Includes a separate server for Minecraft Preview.
Allows members to be invited with the Xbox friends system and invite links.
Worlds can be stored as saves on the cloud with Realms.
Settings

"Spyglass Damping"
Render distance can be increased to 96 chunks, or 128 chunks with Vibrant Visuals in options.txt.
Username can be changed when signed out.
Signed out username can be up to 32 characters long.
"Dinnerbone" or "Grumm" renders the player model upside down.
Technical

AI tasks are stored as JSON files.
Behavior packs can be used to change mob spawn rules, biome and terrain features, and loot tables.
Blocks, items, particle, mobs, animations, and biomes can be added using add-ons.
Brewing recipes are data driven.
Entities can be remodeled.
Shared block spaces.
Resource packs use a JSON file called biomes_client for coloring water blocks depending on biome, rather than confusing color maps like with foliage.
Said JSON file can also be used to change the fog color of a biome.
RenderDragon rendering engine, with the ability to enable "deferred rendering pipeline"​[upcoming: BE] and ray-tracing for compatible devices.
UI interfaces are data-driven with JSON (for old UI) and JavaScript (for new UI).
Villager trade tables are stored as JSON files.
Most particles have longer names.


=== World generation ===

Biomes

Caves in the Nether do not fill up with lava when lower down.
Dying trees covered in vines.
Huge mushrooms generate naturally in swamps.
Ore can generate in polished andesite, diorite and granite, replacing parts of generated structures.
Placement of small end islands is different.
Coral reefs generate with dead coral blocks and with different structures.
Icebergs generate twice as often.
Strays and skeletons are the only monsters that normally spawn in snowy plains and frozen river biomes.
Canyons are generally larger and deeper.
Erosions generate in more biomes.
The Nether only uses the bottom 32 bits of the world seed, rather than all 64 like the Overworld does.
A layer of invisible bedrock exists in the void to prevent the player from falling further.
Entities start taking void damage at different depths (82 blocks below bedrock in Bedrock, 64 blocks below bedrock in Java).
The void is the same color as the sky.
Structures

Cauldrons generate with a random potion inside of it (with random amounts) in swamp huts.
Desert wells have a 1/500 chance of generation per chunk instead of 1/1000.
When generated, desert wells sometimes consist of 2 desert wells, rather than 1.
Desert temples generate more frequently.
Ocean ruins and buried treasure are significantly more common.
Buried treasure and shipwrecks can generate in stony shore biomes.
The chests in ocean ruins always generate with a water source block above it, even when the structure generates on land.
Shipwrecks can generate with acacia wood.
Ocean monuments always generate at the same Y level, with the top of the roof always at Y=56. Seafloor surrounding the monument is cut off if it is higher than the monument's base.
Villages and pillager outposts can generate in more biomes:
Sunflower plains.
Snowy taiga.
Villages and pillager outposts generate with foundation.
Some village buildings don't generate as intended.
Many village buildings have incorrectly rotated blocks.
Village paths sometimes generate gravel.
Strongholds are more likely to generate under villages.
Strongholds generate more infinitely throughout the world.
The 5-way crossing room in strongholds usually has 1–4 entrances sealed.
Monster rooms can generate above sea level.
Igloos generate with packed ice windows instead of normal ice windows.
Nether Fortresses are extremely rare compared to Java Edition.
If all end portal blocks in the end are removed after the dragon has been killed, the end portal regenerates after 5 seconds. If all of the portal blocks have end crystals above (so the fire constantly eliminates the portal), this regeneration process repeats until a portal block successfully regenerates.
End gateways teleport players to different locations.
End gateway can teleport entities in bedrock.
The player spawns off-center on the obsidian platform in the End.


=== Blocks ===
General

Block breaking texture is darker.
Light-emitting blocks lack shading, making it appear brighter.
Light-emitting blocks also lack shading in the inventory. They look like  instead of .
Various blocks have randomly rotated textures, including clay, coarse dirt, crying obsidian, dirt, glowstone, leaves, magma blocks, nylium, obsidian, sand, sandstone, snow blocks, sponges, and terracotta.
Many more blocks can be waterlogged.
Some waterloggable blocks can exist inside flowing water.
Blocks that can be destroyed by fluids are unable to be placed on fluids.
Holding water by bucket will not briefly remove the water when the player is underwater.
The player's inventory can contain blocks, not just items.
For example, stone is handled as a block in the player's inventory, as opposed to an item in Java Edition.
Through add-ons, editing, or glitches, the player can obtain technical blocks (such as lit furnaces and end gateways).
Blocks in inventory can have block states. For example, the player can obtain mushroom blocks with pores on some or all sides.
Cauldrons, hoppers and composters have different shading on the inside.
Blocks that require solid blocks for support will break if placed on a door or trapdoor that is then opened.
Some cross models are not stretched, unlike Java Edition.
Carpets and trapdoors on top of fence and wall corners can only be jumped over from the outside.
Incorrect terminology regarding block states.
On the top and vertical sides of the dirt path and farmland you can place blocks that require support.
Custom block geometries with dimensions greater than 1 block don't render correctly.
Deepslate slabs/stairs/walls variant are not ordered correctly in the creative inventory.
Top textures of some blocks do not rotate.
Blocks cannot be placed on composters, cauldrons, lecterns, jukeboxes or chiseled bookshelves.
Allow, Deny, and Border Blocks

Exist.   
Amethyst Cluster

Plays no sound when walking with jumping on small amethyst bud.
Position of amethyst clusters when held is hardcoded.
Ancient Debris

5 clusters can generate per chunk instead of only 2.
Distribution is different.
Anvil

Side textures are rotated differently.
The cost of combining two items with the same enchant at different levels is based on the increase in level, not the final level.
Azaleas

Can be waterlogged.
Can be placed underwater.
Flowering Azalea Leaves name and name ID are different from Java Edition.
Banners

Ominous Banners
Have a longer flagpole model when worn by illagers.
Worn using an illager's chestplate slot rather than helmet slot.
Can be copied using loom or crafting table.
Banners can still be customized with a crafting table using the old banner customization recipes.
Barriers

Visual mechanics are much cleaner and less resource-intensive - instead of summoning multiple particles in the same spot that take a while to decay, the barrier immediately becomes visible or invisible when the barrier is in the hand or not.
Can be waterlogged with dispensers.
Can be waterlogged in survival mode.
Water flows out of waterlogged barriers.
Beacons

Beacon instantly turns on, on the first tick when placed.
Beds

Have different item models. They look like  instead of .
Falling asleep animations changes camera angle from looking up to looking down.
Bedrock

Bottom two bedrock layers are completely solid instead of just the bottommost layer.
Different generation pattern from Java Edition.
Bedrock pattern at bottom of worlds ignores seed.
Bells

Can be rung by any projectiles (including thrown items).
Projectiles get bounced back after hitting the bell.
Ring by themselves when there is a raid, instead of a villager ringing it.
Bells attached to the tops of blocks are positioned slightly lower.
Using redstone to ring a bell does not work properly.
Big Dripleaf

Water can flow through big dripleaf plants.
Big Dripleaf inventory icon is positioned too high.
Big dripleaf constantly bends when the player crawls under it.
Big dripleaf tilting position is different from Java Edition.
Blackstone Slabs and Blackstone Stairs

Have the lateral texture on all faces, instead of having unique top face as in Java Edition.
Block of Amethyst

Walking sounds are much louder.
Buttons

Can be placed on top of hoppers.
Do not get broken when placed on the side of a piston, when the piston is activated.
Do not get broken by water or lava.
Cacti

Render the back faces.
A cactus in a flower pot has a different texture from Java Edition.
Cakes

Make burp sounds when eaten, instead of eating sounds.
Stack up to 64.
Can be waterlogged.
Campfires

Can be lit by players and mobs standing on top when they are on fire.
Can be lit using a sword or mace with the Fire Aspect enchantment.
Can be extinguished at the bottom face.
Can also be extinguished by placing a water source or allowing water to flow in the space above.
Candles

Can be lit by players and mobs standing on top when they are on fire.
Can be lit using a sword or mace with the Fire Aspect enchantment.
Candles can be lit in adventure mode.
Candles can be extinguished in adventure mode.
Candles cannot replace some normally replaceable blocks.
It's possible to place more than 1 candle in one block while sneaking.
Cartography Tables

Can be used to rename maps.
Can be used to create locator maps.
Can be used to turn paper into maps.
Cauldrons

Are block entities.
Can hold potions.
Can hold twice as many levels of liquid at once.
Cauldrons beneath water fill up with water.
Using a lava bucket on a water or snow cauldron removes the water or snow.
Water in cauldrons can be colored using dyes.
Leather armor, leather horse armor, and wolf armor dyeing has to be done using a cauldron rather than in the crafting grid.
Cave Vines

Can grow in the nether.
The height and frequency of the generation of glowing berries is less than in Java Edition.
Chests, Trapped Chests, and Ender Chests

Have older inventory models. They look like  instead of .
The old chest model was used before Pocket Edition v0.7.3 alpha and is similar to the one in Java Edition before Beta 1.8, albeit slightly smaller.
Coal Ore

Coal ore generates in a third batch, which attempts to generate 20 times per chunk in blobs of size 0-37, evenly from levels 128 to 256, within any type of mountain biomes.
Cocoa Pods

Top texture is 7 pixels wide instead of 8.
Command Blocks

Default name in command feedback is "!" instead of "@".
GUI is vastly different.
Have a delay option.
Cannot be used to change players' gamemodes in hardcore mode.
Composters

When the composter's fullness increases, any entities inside are pushed up accordingly.
The composter plays the bone meal sound when used.
Conduit

Can be oriented in 16 different directions when placed, like standing signs, banners and heads.
When activated by 42 specified blocks, changes its inside texture another time.
Have more particles.
Copper Chest

The GUI of a copper chest is labeled "Copper Chest" instead of "Chest".
Coral

Coral can be grown by using bone meal underwater outside of warm ocean biomes.
Larger variation in the amount of time it takes for coral to die when not exposed to water.
Coral Blocks

Always dies after 2.25 seconds of being out of water.
Do not die if they are surrounded by any non-air blocks.
Coral Fans

Wall fans have one texture pane, as opposed to two in Java Edition.
Instantly turn into dead coral fans if placed outside of water.
Crafters

Output slot in the UI is misaligned.
Crying obsidian

Different chances of replacing obsidian in ruined portals.
Dead Coral and Dead Coral Fans

Can be obtained using any silk touch tool, not just a pickaxe.
Cannot be pushed by pistons.
Decorated pots

Play different sounds when picked up without shattering.
Decorated pots glitch out projectiles that break them, causing them to ignore collision.
Dirt Paths

Can support torches, levers, buttons, tripwire hooks, coral fans, rails, vines, ladders and bells on the sides.
Drop itself when broken using Silk Touch.
Have the block ID grass_path instead of dirt_path as in Java Edition.
Dispensers

Dispenser with bucket may fail to pick up water or lava if activated immediately before/after relog.
Doors

Play sound effects differently.
Side textures of doors (except cherry and copper) are different.
Dragon Eggs

Two dragon eggs spawn per world instead of one.
Dried Ghast

Dried Ghasts in Nether Fossils are very rare in Bedrock Edition.
Enchanting Table

Appears more brightly lit.
End Portal Blocks

Allow Withers to teleport.
Farmland

Can support torches, levers, buttons, tripwire hooks, coral fans, rails, vines, ladders and bells on the sides.
Ferns

Have randomized height.
Using bone meal on a grass block can produce ferns.
Fire

The side texture of fire is slightly tilted towards the center of the block.
Rain extinguishes fire more quickly.
Player catches fire immediately after walking through it.
Firefly Bushes

Can grow on sand.
Flowers

Using bone meal on small flowers spawns other flowers of the same type on top of nearby dirt/grass blocks. This does not apply to wither roses.
Additional randomness is applied during terrain generation, meaning that some flowers might not perfectly align to the gradient.
In meadow biomes bone meal completely ignores the gradients and only generates dandelions.
Unused blue rose and paeonia flower textures exist:  
Frogspawn

Frogspawn ID is frog_spawn instead of frogspawn.
Frosted Ice

Melts faster after walking with Frost Walker boots.
Can be obtained by using /give
Glow Lichen

Orientation is handled by a single block state instead of multiple.
Glowing Obsidian

Exists.
Short Grass

Have random height.
Grass Blocks

Can be composted.
Side texture of snowy grass blocks is slightly different.
Snowy Grass Block file name is incorrect.
Hanging Roots

Can be obtained using any silk touch tool.
Other blocks cannot replace hanging roots.
Hanging roots appears floating off your hand when held.
Honey Blocks

Can support torches, levers, buttons, tripwire hooks, coral fans, rails, vines, ladders and bells on the sides.
Entities slide much less compared to Java Edition.
Honey blocks moved by pistons move entities that are touching the side of the block.
Transfers redstone power (not a transparent block).
Jump height on honey blocks is lower.
Fence, Glass Panes, Walls and Iron Bars connect with honey blocks.
Rails can be placed on honey blocks.
Hoppers

A chain of hoppers with air or non-container blocks on top has better performance than a chain of hoppers topped by container blocks.
Hoppers with multiple dropped items above them collect the items in the order in which they entered the chunk in which the hopper is located.
Hoppers have a "collection cooldown" time. After collecting an item (or stack of items), a hopper waits 4 redstone ticks (0.4 seconds, barring lag) before attempting to collect again.
Hoppers use the side texture on the bottom.
Iron Bars and copper bars

Different appearance when unconnected to other blocks.
Iron Ore

The first two batches of iron ore generation produce blobs 0-16 blocks in size rather than 0-13 blobs in size.
Item Frames

Are blocks instead of entities.
Can be placed on the lid of a shulker box without popping off when the lid is opened.
Can be placed on the top face of fences, walls, and fence gates.
Display particles when broken.
Several items on the item frame glow in the dark:
Items that have enchantment glint overlay.
Light-emitting block items (including lava bucket and with the exception of campfires).
Glow item frame ID does not match Java Edition.
Jigsaw blocks

Function differently than in Java Edition.
Ladders

The player can hold down the jump button while climbing a ladder to make the climbing speed faster.
Leaves

Leaves with snow on top make snowfall particles, similar to how blocks make water/lava drip through.
Render the back faces.
When in snowy biomes, become fully white when it snows. 
Oak/Birch Saplings planted next to Flowering Azalea & Flowering Azalea Leaves don't have a chance to grow with bee hives.
Waterlogged leaves flood the area unlike the waterlogged leaves on Java Edition.
Mangrove leaves are brighter than Java Edition.
Cherry leaves are brighter than Java Edition.
Lecterns

Because Bedrock Edition displays two pages of the book at once, the same signal strength increments require double the number of pages.
The tops of lecterns are slightly less than one block wide.
Levers

Can be placed on top of hoppers.
Do not get broken when placed on the side of a piston, when the piston is activated.
Do not get broken by water or lava.
Light Blocks

Can be replaced by placing a block in its place.
Can be moved by pistons.
Produce particles when broken.
Use different inventory textures.
Light block preview texture does not match Java Edition.
Some blocks cannot be placed in light blocks as intended.
Lightning Rods

Has a radius of 128 blocks instead of 64.
Has a different item model.
Lightning can strike a lightning rod hit by a trident enchanted with Channeling during rain or thunderstorms, even if there are solid blocks above it blocking rainfall, as long as all the blocks are fully transparent.
Doesn't have proper shading.
Bottom texture is different.
Lightning rod emitting particle animation does not match java.
Lily Pads

Are brighter in the inventory.
Are slightly 3D.
Can be placed inside entities.
Looms

Banner designs are listed in a different order.
Preview all banner designs without a banner and dye in the input slots.
Monster Spawner

Mobs are spawned within 4 blocks of taxicab distance from a spawner, resulting in a diamond-shaped volume where mobs can spawn.
Some animals require light level 7+ to be spawned, e.g. chicken, sheep, cow, rabbit.
Spawners can only spawn fish if the spawner is waterlogged.
Some mobs are too small and do not rotate correctly in the spawner.
Wither and Iron Golem models in spawners do not correspond with Java Edition.
Moss Blocks

Can spread on polished andesite, polished diorite, and polished granite.​[until: BE 26.20]
Growing trees other than spruce on a moss block will turn the moss block to dirt.
Moss blocks require air above a replaceable block to spread.
Muddy Mangrove Roots

Saplings convert muddy mangrove roots into dirt when grown.
Mushrooms

Can generate in caves.
Netherrack

Generates additionally next to the obsidian floor when a nether portal generates floating in the air, making it renewable.
Nether Reactor Cores

Exist.
Note Blocks

Honeycomb blocks produce a flute sound (as opposed to the normal "harp" in Java Edition).
Wither skeleton note block sound plays normal skeleton ambient sounds instead of unique ones.
The musical pitch and instrument data are handled on a separate process (tile entity data) that is independent of the main world update loop. As a result, right-clicking to change the note does not trigger a block update. Because no update signal is generated, neither observers nor BUDs can detect the change. 
Petrified Oak Slabs

Drop a normal oak slab.
Pink Petals

Pink Petal item has a missplaced pixel compared to Java Edition.
Pistons

A powered unextended piston immediately extends if it becomes able to rather than waiting for an update.
Blocks that contain block entities (except banners, signs, and campfires) can be moved by pistons.
Blocks that stick to walls (such as levers) can be placed on pistons without being destroyed when activated.
Break banners and signs, rather than being unable to extend.
Check if they are powered/can extend every tick (instead of only when receiving a block update).
Finish extending before retracting again.
Have a 1 game tick delay between powering/depowering and extension/retraction.
Have a block entity; control pick blocking an extended piston gives a piston that deletes the block in front of it when placed.
Piston head model has a larger "neck".
Piston head has a slightly different side texture.
Piston only extend/retract when the previous action finished.
Require 1 tick to retract.
Take longer to extend.
Can push and pull bells, lanterns and candles.
Plants

Some plants can be "snowlogged".
Short grass and ferns have a randomly selected height.
Melons and pumpkins grow more slowly than in Java Edition.
Crops grow more slowly than in Java Edition.
Crops are rendered differently.
Vines, short grass, tall grass, ferns and large ferns have inaccurate inventory icons.
Pointed Dripstone

Placing a pointed dripstone with commands places a stalactite instead of a stalagmite.
Jumping on a stalagmite makes the falling sound and particles.
Pointed dripstone removes some blocks when it falls.
Pointed dripstone in first person hand does not match Java Edition.
Powder Snow

Freezing effect looks slightly different.
Particles appear when an entity is extinguished by powder snow.
Spawn eggs cannot be used inside powder snow.
Spawn eggs cannot spawn a mob inside powder snow from the outside.
Powder snow slows down flying fireworks.
Some blocks cannot be placed on powder snow that can be in Java Edition.
Pumpkins

Pumpkins can generate in frozen peaks, jagged peaks, stony peaks, meadows, cherry groves, lush caves and mangrove swamps.
Pumpkin top textures are different by 1 pixel and are rotated differently.
Rails

Are broken by flowing water.
Redstone Comparators

Can be placed on walls and fences.
Back faces of redstone torches don't render.
Redstone torch block model faces are slightly misaligned.
Comparators can read inventories through chains.
Redstone Dust

Connects to pistons.
Power transmission is in a random order.
Remains on the base of a piston after being extended and then retracted.
Transparent blocks can pass redstone power downward.
Unconnected redstone dust is always a full cross, and cannot be toggled/interacted with to become a dot.
Slightly different textures.
Redstone powers the wrong blocks when redirected by pistons or target blocks.
Redstone Repeaters

Can be placed on walls and fences.
Back faces of redstone torches don't render.
Redstone torch block model faces are slightly misaligned.
Redstone Torches

Redstone torches can be turned off with a one-tick pulse.
Redstone torches on powered pistons always turn off.
Render the back faces.
Redstone torch block model faces are slightly misaligned.
Used an outdated appearance.
Redstone torch dust particle is offset to the west (-X).
Resin Clumps

Orientation is handled by a single block state instead of multiple.
Rooted Dirt

Growing Mega Spruce Taiga trees doesn't replace rooted dirt base into podzol block.
Sand

Sand block shading is lighter.
Scaffolding

Are slightly 3D around the mesh.
Have no mesh on its bottom when floating.
The player cannot move horizontally when sneaking in climbables on top of scaffolding.
Sculk Catalysts

Has a larger detection range for mob deaths.[needs testing]
Sculk Sensors

Do not cull the faces of blocks below them.
Render their outer faces on the inside.
Different tendril animations and textures.
Sculk sensors are activated upon placing eyes of ender into end portal frames.
Sculk Shriekers

Do not cull the faces of blocks below them or next to them.
Render their outer faces on the inside.
Sculk shrieker particles last longer than Java.
Sculk Veins

Orientation is handled by a single block state instead of multiple.
Seagrass

Can only grow on dirt, coarse dirt, sand, red sand, gravel, or clay‌.
Prevents coral fan placement.‌
Shulker Boxes

Can't open if obstructed by a redstone conductive block.
Items inside are listed on the tooltip{{{1}}} as properties when being held.
Opening a shulker box can be used to push players through walls.
Signs

Are flammable.
Can be destroyed and drop as an item when pushed by a piston.
Formatting codes can also be used to apply decorative effects such as color, bold, italic and underline to various bits of the text.
Writing JSON on the sign shows the JSON output, rather than the input on the sign.
Writing jumps to the next line if it doesn't fit, rather than stopping inserting text.
Signs are slightly less than one block wide.
Small dripleaf

Rendered differently.
Leaves can overlap when placed next to each other.
Small dripleaf can partially break from lack of water.
Small dripleaf can be placed in flowing water.
Small Dripleaf name ID is different from Java Edition.
Smithing Tables

Custom smithing table recipes cannot be created with add-ons.
Sniffer Egg

Green particles when placing a sniffer egg appear inside the egg instead of around it.
Snow

Can be removed by rightclicking with a shovel.
Can generate in multiple layers.
Generates where there is sky access atop buildings in snowy taiga villages.‌
Generates and can be placed on packed ice, blue ice, and dirt path (which does not change to dirt).
If there are multiple layers, the layers melt gradually.
Is affected by gravity.
When falling on other snow, it'll add the layer count together and add an additional few.
Melts in snowless biomes.
While snowing snow randomly stacks together to have random patches, opposed to being completely flat.
Soul Sand

Can support torches, levers, buttons, tripwire hooks, coral fans, rails, vines, ladders and bells on the sides.
Soul Torches

Block model faces are slightly misaligned.
Sponges

A wet sponge placed in any dry biome in the Overworld dries out after a few minutes and turns into a normal sponge.
If a normal sponge comes into contact with water in a dry biome, it absorbs the water and immediately dries out with a puff of steam.
Spore Blossoms

Slightly different model.
Stonecutter

Can be crafted using andesite, diorite and granite.
Old version of stonecutter exists. 
Structure Blocks

Export mode on structure blocks.
Preview design.

Has a placement animation options in Load mode.
Remove blocks (can include entity without saving any block as structures).
Structure size is limited to 64 per axis, rather than 48.
Usage is explained in-game.
Structure Void

Can support blocks such as signs, torches, and redstone wire.
Sugar Cane

Bone meal can be used on sugar cane.
Instantly breaks if its water is removed, rather than not breaking until updated as in Java Edition.
Grows much more slowly than in Java Edition.
Sugar cane can generate in frozen peaks, jagged peaks, stony peaks, meadows, cherry groves, lush caves and mangrove swamps.
Suspicious Blocks

Floating suspicious blocks fall after random gameticks.
Tall Grass

Tall grass can generate in windswept savannas and snowy plains.
TNT

TNT submerged in water can destroy armor stands, leash knots and paintings.
Trial Spawners

Can be waterlogged.
Tripwire

Can be activated by thrown eyes of ender, the ender dragon, markers, and items clipped into solid blocks.
Weeping Vines

Have a different texture.
Wood Planks

Spruce planks have a miscolored pixel.


=== Fluids ===
General

Makes the player float up or down slightly if the eye level of the player ends up being at the height of the water/lava during creative flight.
Lava

A player with the Fire Resistance effect or a total Fire Protection of 7 or higher does not catch fire in lava.
Lava ignites flammable blocks within a differently shaped range.
Lava does not deactivate elytra flight.
Still lava correctly displays a still lava texture at the sides of glass blocks, instead of a downward flowing texture.
Water

Still water displays a still water texture at the sides of glass blocks, instead of just a solid color.
Underwater brightness are much brighter than in Java Edition.
Water has different colors for every biome, rather than only in ocean and swamp biomes.
Water color is not hard-coded. Texture color, underwater fog color and fog distance are defined in a JSON file.
Underwater sky lighting visually changes depending on player's underwater level.
Less underwater visibility than in Java Edition.
Flowing water cannot push items over edges.


=== Items ===
General

Held items in third person point up more.
Most items with durability have one additional durability point.
Items emitted from trial vaults / ominous vaults / trial spawners jitter in the air before falling.
Compass, Recovery Compass and Clock do not work in creative mode in the recipe book.
Projectiles can be thrown through some block bounding boxes.
Unused quiver and ruby textures exist:  
Armor

When worn, the diamond chestplate's sleeve has a distinct model from Java Edition.
Axe

Can be used to remove wax and oxidation from copper blocks in adventure mode.
Books and Quills and Written Books

Have 2 pages open at once.
When signed, the author can be anything the player wants.
Writing JSON in the book show the JSON output, rather than the input in the book.
Maximum title length is 16 instead of 15 characters.
Brush

Has 65 durability points instead of 64.
Because of this, a single unenchanted brush can get 5 armadillo scutes from an armadillo instead of 4.
Bundle

Bundle crafting recipes can be unlocked with leather.
Cocoa Beans

Can be obtained from bonus chests, fishing inside the jungle, bamboo jungle and sparse jungle biomes, and trading with a wandering trader.
Compasses

Needle has an animation when the compass changes direction by being used on a lodestone.
Dried Kelp

Restore 0.2 saturation instead of 0.6.
Dyes

Ink sacs, cocoa beans, lapis lazuli, and bone meal can still be used as dyes in the crafting grid.
Enchanted Books

The Fortune book can make blocks drop more items if the block mined can be broken by fist.‌
Ender Pearls

Travel further when thrown.
Thrown ender pearl doesn't load and tick chunks.
Eyes of Ender

If the player travels beyond a certain radius (roughly 740,000 blocks), eyes of ender always point to a stronghold near spawn, even though strongholds continue to generate past this limit. If one travels to this limit, they can see eyes of ender suddenly switching direction.
Thrown eyes of ender sound like an item frame breaking.
Firework Rockets and Firework Stars

Fireworks with the different base colors explosions are available in the creative inventory.
Bone meal, cocoa beans, ink sacs and lapis lazuli can be used to craft firework stars.
Fishing Rods

Warped fungi on sticks can be crafted using damaged fishing rods.
Has a higher durability (384 compared to 64 in Java Edition).
Mobs riding other mobs dismount when hooked by a fishing rod.
Flint and Steel

Attempting to use flint and steel on ice, glass, and the sides of non-flammable blocks causes no flames to appear, but the flint and steel's durability still decreases by 1.‌
Glass Panes

Different inventory models.  
Goat Horn

The sound from the goat horn remains in one place after the start of sound playback.
Leaves

Jungle leaves have a different inventory model.  
Lodestone Compasses

Are separate items from regular compasses.
Mace

Solid partial blocks do not produce particles when performing a mace smash.
Maps

Empty map is called "Empty Locator Map", and shows location markers.
Meanwhile, the "normal" empty map (crafted using 9 paper in a crafting table or 1 paper in a cartography table) does not show location markers.
Doesn't require a compass to be crafted.
The coloring of grass blocks, water, etc. on the map depends on the biome they are placed on.
Have an unlimited color palette and a different set of colors for blocks.
Adding locators, cloning, and expanding maps can also be done in an anvil.
Show player heads instead of arrows in multiplayer.
Players wearing mob heads and carved pumpkins are invisible on maps.
Using an Overworld map in the Nether shows the corresponding location. Using an Overworld map in the End shows the world spawn point.
When creating a new world, the player can enable the "Starting Map" option to spawn with an empty locator map in the inventory.
The zoom level of a map is always displayed in its tooltip.
Locked maps have a unique texture. 
Filled maps, treasure maps and explorer maps have different item textures from Java Edition.
Map icons are 16x16 pixels instead of 8x8.
More types of map icons.
Locator map pointers become invisible when far away.
Locator and Explorer maps don't show your rotation when far away.
Milk buckets

The drinking animation for milk is visible in third-person.
Music Discs

Lava Chicken record rarity is different from Java.
Nether Stars

Never despawn when dropped.
Ominous Bottles

Effects are applied after a delay of several ticks after using it.
Potions

Potions, splash potions, lingering potions, and tipped arrows of decay exist.    
Extended long mundane potion, splash potion, lingering potion, and arrow; the 3 potion variants are available in the creative inventory.
The corruption of Healing II or Poison II potions results in a potion of Harming I.
Hitting an undead mob with a Regeneration Potion always registers as Regeneration I, no matter the level of the used potion.
Splash and lingering potions can be used to extinguish a burning entity in the Nether.
Weakness potions can be brewed by mundane and thick potions.
Strength potions can be corrupted into weakness potions.
Extended splash potions of regeneration and poison have a different duration from Java Edition.
Splash potions have a shorter duration than in Java Edition.
Potion translation strings do not match Java Edition.
Textures for Potions and Splash Potions of Absorption, Blindness, Haste, Health Boost, Hunger, Mining Fatigue, Nausea, Resistance, Saturation, and Levitation exist.

Recovery Compass

Can be enchanted with Curse of Vanishing
Scaffolding

Has a different model.  
Seagrass

Has a different model.
Shields

Are activated by sneaking.
Are always activated when mounting mobs.
Smithing Templates

"Spire", "Tide", and "Dune" armor trims can be duplicated with more blocks than in Java Edition. In addition to the normal blocks, "Tide" armor trims can be duplicated using prismarine bricks or dark prismarine, "Dune" armor trims can be duplicated using smooth sandstone, cut sandstone, or chiseled sandstone, and "Spire" armor trims can be duplicated using purpur pillars.
Snowball

Snowballs cause knockback.
Suspicious Stew

Effects have a shorter duration.
Spawn Eggs

Agent and NPC spawn eggs exist:  
Sweet berries

Restore 1.2 saturation instead of 0.4.
Tipped Arrows

Display more particles.
Totem of Undying

It's possible to kill another player while they are using a totem of undying.
Tridents

Can hurt multiple mobs in one throw.
Can shoot from dispenser, rather than thrown as an item.​[upcoming: JE Combat Tests]
Tridents with Loyalty return to the player, even if thrown into the Void.
Thrown tridents don't despawn.
Turtle Shell

Some armor trims extend beyond the helmet's shape.
Wind Charges

When throwing a wind charge, the projectile is slightly offset.
Sounds have different pitches and volumes.
Using /kill on wind charge still plays the hitting animation.


=== Entities ===
General

Entities on fire have an orange-yellow tint and an exclusive particle.
Many biomes have different mob spawning probabilities.
Slimes and magma cubes can spawn in smaller spaces (2x2x2) than in Java (3x2.1x3).
Slimes and magma cubes can damage snow golems.
Villagers and iron golems prefer walking on certain types of blocks over others.
Dismount message when riding entities is different.
Mobs that can pick up items will actively try to pick them up.
Pillagers and piglins don't aim their crossbows directly at their targets.
Mobs obstruct player interaction with blocks under/behind at a wider range than in Java Edition.
Solid entity collisions can't push players into a crawling position.
Entities on top of or inside a moving block often move farther than the block and may fall through blocks as a result.
TPS decreases drastically if many mobs at once fail to reach their target.
Mobs don't avoid lava cauldrons when pathfinding.
Mobs spawn more frequently in the Nether.
Mobs have short follow/target range.
Jockeys and other entities with passengers can't travel through portals.
Baby mobs are an animation, rather than a model.
Many passive mobs can spawn at light level 7 or above rather than 9 or above as in Java Edition.
Agents

Exist. 
Allays

Can follow players through portals by teleporting across dimensions.
Sounds are pitched differently.
Has different animations.
Allay plays incorrect sound upon login.
Can have a lead or name tag attached by shift clicking.
Animals

Animals that are in love mode emit heart particles constantly.
Aquatic mobs can survive on land if given the water breathing effect.
Death messages are produced upon the death of a tamed donkey, llama, trader llama, horse, or mule.
Feeding mobs makes the corresponding food particles and plays a sound.
Some animals detect and follow players holding food from a greater distance.
Striders and hoglins share a mob cap.
Hoglins and zoglins have slightly different models than in Java Edition.
Hoglins and zoglins have incorrect shadow placement.
Lead attached to hoglin does not break when hoglin turns into zoglin.
Animal mobcap is 4 instead of 8.
Armadillos

Can spawn as babies.
Armor stands

Are affected by splash potions effect.
Have a brief death animation when killed with a harming, wither, or poison potion.
Are attacked by "Johnny" vindicators.
Can be renamed using name tags.
Renamed armor stands display their name tag like mobs and players.
Armor stands named "Dinnerbone" or "Grumm" turn upside-down.
Can change pose depending on a redstone signal or by sneaking and interacting.
Can use totems of undying.
Can ride minecarts and boats.
Have arms by default.
Stack up to 64.
Axolotls

Can breed again after 1 minute instead of 5.
Can turn their heads.
Regeneration effect given to players has no time limit.
Instantly killed by lightning.
Keep status effects when caught in a bucket.
Bees

Can pollenate wither roses.
Boats

Boats can be ridden upward in descending water.
Does not sink when submerged but instead floats up.
Falling boats can go through other entities.
Have 40 health points instead of 4 health points.
Mobs can be picked up by a boat being ridden by a player.
Leashed boats can bounce when the player jumps.
Breeze

Faster spinning animation.
Have different sound effects.
Eye emissive layer is rendered over the entire body instead of only the head.
Move slower through liquids than in Java Edition.
Camels

Inventory can be accessed without riding.
In Java Edition, camels cannot be interacted with while sitting, while in Bedrock Edition, they will get up immediately once the player rides them while sitting.
Camel Husks

Spawn on their own, rather than from a husk.
Cameras

Exist. 
Cats

25% chance to spawn as a kitten.
Spawns as a black cat with a 50% chance on a full moon night.
Unused gray tabby texture exists: 
Cod

Can spawn in frozen oceans.
Copper Golems

In Java Edition, a copper golem cannot distinguish between different potion contents or suspicious stew types, but it can in Bedrock Edition.
Creakings

Creakings cannot enter minecarts‌.
Creepers

Charged creeper explosions drop heads/skulls for all mobs it kills that have a head/skull, rather than dropping one head/skull.
Have different spawning rules: creepers always spawning individually per group, instead of up to 4 per group, and have 5 spawning limit in the Overworld surface.
Dolphins

Attacks the player more often while angered.
Swims in groups of 2.
Baby dolphins follow their adults.
Produce bubble particles when swimming.
Donkeys

More donkeys naturally spawn at once.
Chests attached to donkeys and mules wobble while the animal walks.
Drowned

Are neutral during the day, not passive.
Chase and attack villagers and snow golems.
Have a slightly more inflated outer texture layer.
Have glowing eyes and mouth.
Have proper throwing animations.
Spawn in groups of 2 to 4 in oceans.
When holding tridents, can use melee attacks when within 3 blocks.
Elder Guardian

Inflicts any unafflicted player within range with mining fatigue immediately.
Make their underwater death sounds if killed on land.
Elder Guardian Ghost

Exists.
Endermen

Arrows go straight through endermen that are unable to teleport (but effects are still applied if it is a tipped arrow).
Can be provoked by players under the Invisibility effect.
Take damage from standing in cauldrons filled with water.
Teleports away if being attacked on their legs or by wolves.
Endermen can be attacked with projectiles if they are in a boat or minecart.
Endermites

Spawn at an ender pearl's landing site.
Evokers

Have 2 () point.
Firework rockets

Have a cross model like arrows.
Fish

Cod, salmon and pufferfish spawn in slightly larger groups and cannot spawn underneath solid blocks.
Have different swimming animations.
Pufferfish wiggles tail, rather than fins.
Cod and salmon wiggle tail further than in Java Edition.
When flopping, they rotate around the y-axis.
Avoid axolotls.
Fishing bobbers

Fall much faster than in Java.
Have a 3D model.
Foxes

Foxes that trust the player attack any mob that harms their trusted player, including other players.
If a fox wields a sword with the Fire Aspect enchantment while attacking a mob on a campfire or a soul campfire, it ignites the campfire and does critical damage to the entity.
Shake side to side before pouncing and their legs wave while in midair.
Foxes don't pick up fully grow sweet berries as fast when compared to java.
Frogs

Frogs that grow up in stony peaks biomes are green instead of orange.
Frogs that grow up in warm or cold ocean biomes become warm or cold variants instead of always becoming the temperate variant.
Ghasts

Have glowing eyes.
Holds its charge when its target gets lost of its sight and shoots again instantly when in range.
Normally targets a player within a sphere of 28 blocks, increasing to 64 blocks if the player damages it.
Retaliate when attacked by other mobs.
Ghast fireballs sometimes fail to break blocks that they should break on a direct hit.
Glow Squids

Glow squids can spawn inside water (with any block above it), regardless of lighting.
Goats

Two screaming goats have a 2% chance of producing a non-screaming baby.
Goats can accidentally ram attack other goats.
Guardians

Can attack players under the Invisibility effect.
Happy Ghasts

Have a 5% chance to spawn a ghastlings when spawned via spawn egg.
Horses

Handling is really loose and delayed, making the task of controlling the horse and making precise movements harder than it should.
Horses spawned from spawn eggs are sometimes foals.
The player's health bar and hunger bar are displayed while riding a horse and the player's experience bar is replaced by the horse's jump bar when the jump control is activated.
The player can hold an object that cannot be used when mounting a wild horse, instead of just their bare hand.
Illagers

Ambient sounds are louder in a raid.
Mobs spawned from raids have different loot drops.
Pillagers and vindicators can wear armor, though it doesn't render.
Captains do not drop ominous bottles if killed by a wolf.
Raiders can drop iron tools, armor, and emeralds.
Iron golems

Can ride minecarts.
Can spawn during world generation.
Walk slightly faster than in Java.
Iron Golems do not spawn if not all Villagers have a workstation.
Jockeys

Baby zombies/husks/zombie villagers can ride many mobs other than just chickens:
Adult zombies/husks/zombie villagers.
Adult zombified piglins.
Spiders and cave spiders.
Most animals: cows, donkeys, foxes, horses, skeleton horses, zombie horses, mooshrooms, mules, sheep, ocelots, pandas, pigs, stray cats and untamed wolves.
Baby zombies have a higher chance of spawning as chicken jockeys.
Cave spiders can spawn as spider jockeys. 
Strays, bogged, parched, and wither skeletons can spawn as riders of spider jockeys.   
Leads

Leashes drag on the ground and don't get longer, and when in the air, the leashed mob doesn't bounce higher; they also stick to the arm while it's moving in third person.
Llamas

Carpet becomes invisible if the llama is invisible.
Trader llamas are immediately tame after being unleashed from a wandering trader.
Can spawn in windswept savannas.
Llama spit
Can be deflected.
Magma Cubes

Have glowing cores.
Minecarts

Minecarts can pass through blocks when on a slanted rail.
Minecart entity separation no longer works.
Textures of blocks in minecarts are not rotated correctly.
Minecarts with command block

Use repeating command block instead of impulse. 
Minecarts with hopper

A minecart with hopper on a curved rail pulls in items in a hopper lying in front of its moving direction and one block above if the hopper's output funnel is pointed downward and no block is below that hopper.
Hopper minecarts can suck disks from jukeboxes while on a powered activator rail.
NPCs

Exists. 
Ocelots

Breeding creates an ocelot kitten that trusts the player.
Can spawn in all jungle variants.
Trusting ocelots don't despawn.
Pandas

Attack the player less often while angered.
Breeding behavior is different; they require 8 nearby bamboo blocks to enter love mode at all, while in Java they only require 1 bamboo block and enter love mode regardless, but just don't breed.
Baby's head is a different size.
Can spawn in all jungle variants.
Drop 0-2 bamboo upon death, rather than always 1.
Pandas have a higher spawn rate in bamboo jungles.
When lying on their back, lazy pandas get up and follow the player if they hold bamboo, rather than ignore the player completely.
Parrots

Can spawn in all jungle variants.
Dance on the player's shoulder when a music disc is playing.
Dismount when the player falls down a distance greater than 1 9⁄16 blocks, compared to 3⁄4 of a block in Java Edition.
Dismount when the player's shoulders become submerged in water, instead of feet in Java.
Parrots sitting on the player's shoulders prevents the player from entering a nether portal.
Parrots can imitate endermen, polar bears, wolves, and zombified piglins.
Patrols

Can spawn in any light level.
Phantoms

Attempt to stay 16 blocks away from ocelots, similar to cats.
Have different attack strengths: 4HP on Easy difficulty, 6HP on Normal and 9HP on Hard.
As of Java Edition 1.14, phantoms deal much less damage: 2HP on Easy and Normal and 3HP on Hard.
Have different spawning mechanics.
Wing models are slightly different.
Pigs

Riding is different:
Less instant in turning.
The pig does not look up and down with the player, unlike in Java Edition.
The pig has to jump to get on blocks, rather than just step up like horses.
Using a carrot on a stick makes the pig boost, along with a sound effect, and only reduces the durability of the carrot on a stick by one.
Piglins

Are afraid of extinguished soul campfires.
Baby piglins can be made to wear armor and wield a sword, but not a gold sword.
Baby piglins drops 1XP instead of 5XP.
Baby piglins make angry noises when any piglin gets angry.
Can naturally spawn in Peaceful difficulty with passive behavior.
When targeting with a crossbow, the arms are aligned. 
Need 8 seconds to barter, rather than 6.
Immediately attack players while bartering instead of waiting for the transaction to finish.
Piglin brutes

Have different attack strengths: they deal 14HP × 7-15HP × 7.5[verify] on Hard difficulty, instead of 19HP × 9.5 as in Java.
Hunt down hoglins with piglins.
Pillagers

Drop 0-2 arrows upon death.
Have a melee attack.
Used when underwater only, not when no crossbow is equipped.
Have a unique celebration animation. 
Don't hold their crossbow with two hands unless they are targeting.
Hold a loaded crossbow with both hands.
Players

All projectiles knockback players.
Hand in first person is positioned lower and turns red when taking damage.
* Items are held differently in third person.
Players can fall off non-full blocks when crouching.
Players crouch when flying down in creative mode.
Players can "step upward" while flying.
When flying, players can stop moving instantly.
When touching the ground while flying down in Creative mode, the player will not stop flying.
Player's name tag completely disappears when sneaking.
Players are completely immune to damage in creative mode, including damage from the void and kill command.
Player vertical knockback is desynced.
Polar Bears

Can spawn in frozen river, frozen peaks, jagged peaks and snowy slopes.
Can drop both cod and salmon at once.
Projectiles

Snowballs and eggs deal knockback to players and trigger their pets to attack.
Snowballs, eggs, fishing rod bobbers and wind charges thrown through fire or lava catch fire and can set fire to entities they hit.
Throwable entities such as eggs, ender pearls and snowballs render immediately in front of the player after being thrown, rather than being rendered after two ticks as in Java Edition.
Pufferfish

Inflates when hurt.
Small pufferfish move their tails when swimming.
Rabbits

Baby rabbits follows adult rabbits..
Can eat immature carrot crops.
Can spawn in frozen ocean, frozen peaks, frozen river, jagged peaks and snowy beach.
Ravagers

Ambient sounds are louder in a raid.
Attack does less knockback.
Can destroy more block types.​[until: BE 26.20]
Has a delay between beginning its attack animation and dealing damage to its target.
Has a farther attack reach.
Leg textures are flipped.
Salmon

Can spawn in lukewarm and normal oceans.
Silverfish

Attack iron golems before they are hit.
Shulkers

Can be colored by using a dye on them in creative mode.
Can spawn in peaceful mode.
Drop 0-4 shulker shells when killed with Looting III (increase of 1 shulker shell per level), instead of 0-1 as in Java (increase of 6.25% per level).
Shulkers cannot rotate their head more than 180 degrees.
Shulkers are put in impossible places when exiting minecarts.
Shulkers open into blocks when unable to teleport.
Skeletons

A skeleton on land shoots quickly at a player in water. The rate of fire increases as the player approaches, making combat difficult due to the knockback.
Typically stop moving to shoot, making no attempt to avoid being hit.
Typically shoot more rapidly at players the more they are closer to it.
Underwater, it switches to direct attack without using a bow and arrow.
Skeleton horses

Can be controlled without a saddle.
Immune to lightning.
Slimes

The chunks that slimes can naturally spawn in inhabit the same coordinates for every world.
Sniffers

The hitboxes of sniffers are not adjusted when they lay down.
Only sniffers at full health can breed.
Are healed by 2 health points each time they are fed a torchflower seed.
Snow golems

Can spawn naturally when pumpkins generate on top of two snow blocks.
Don't leave snow trails in biomes with high temperature values, such as jungles, mushroom fields, savannas, stony peaks, deserts, badlands, and biomes in the Nether.
Spiders

Can spawn in 3x1x3 spaces beneath full solid blocks.
May not spawn with various status effects in Hard difficulty.
Spiders killed by wolves do not drop spider eyes.
Squids

If a squid is out of the water, its tentacles swing more slowly as its oxygen meter goes down. When 15 seconds have passed, its tentacles stop swinging and the squid begins to suffocate.
Strays

Can spawn from skeleton spawners.
Striders

Babies spawn more than adults.
Can move their heads up and down when being ridden by mobs.
Can spawn at the bottom of lava lakes.
Eyes of shivering striders are one pixel higher.
Players can ride striders submerged in lava.
Saddled striders have shorter legs.
Tropical fish

Are bigger than in Java Edition.
Have different names (see below).
Spawn in slightly smaller groups.
Unused clownfish texture exists: 
Turtles

Slightly different spawning requirements.
Much shorter breeding cooldown.
Do not rotate their front fins along the x axis while swimming.
Undead

Skeletons, strays and bogged use melee attacks underwater.
Skeletons, strays and bogged don't actually "use" their bow, and shoots arrows like how a ghast shoots fireballs.
Zombies and zombie variants have the same posture as players when holding anything in their offhand.
Vexes

Have a random chance of dropping an iron sword.
Villagers

Babies have bigger heads like other baby mobs.
Babies ignore players.
Babies can take poppies held by iron golems.
Display angry particles when nearby beds, bells and assigned workstations are broken by a player.
Heal if there's bread in their inventory.
Heal after sleeping in a bed.
If the beds or workstations tie in well, green particles are emitted from both the villagers and the beds or workstations.
If they lose their job site block, they go back to being an unemployed villager, unless they're a higher level.
Pre-Village & Pillage villagers are still available.      
Spawn with professions, when spawned via spawn eggs.
When they showing an item they offer, they will slightly lift their arms.
During rain or snow villagers enter houses and stop their daily schedule.‌
The trades of cartographers after villager trade rebalancing aren't in parity with Java Edition.
Baby villagers are sometimes born with the wrong skin in certain biomes.
Villagers don't give items after finishing a raid.
Suspicious Stew trade not randomized for Farmer.
Villagers claim workstations and beds that are too far away and/or get stuck unemployed.
Vindicators

Johnny vindicators target baby villagers.
Vindicators riding on ravagers never spawn in raids.
Arm position is different when not holding a weapon.
Wandering traders

Can spawn in village gathering sites.
Despawn shortly after all trades are used up.
Drink an invisibility potion when hurt or near a hostile mob (illagers, vexes, and zombies and its variants).
Shows the item they offer when the player is holding an emerald.
Always spawns with two leashed trader llamas, even when spawned with a spawn egg.
Run away from zombified piglins.
Can sell mangrove logs. 
Wardens

Get attracted to pressure plates they themselves stand on.
Can detect shooting projectiles when you're in creative mode.
Can detect cauldron filling in creative mode.
Its hurt and death sounds are quieter.
Witches

Ambient sounds are louder in a raid.
Always spawn in a single spot in witch huts, rather than anywhere within a larger area.
Are immune to their own negative splash potion effects.
Attack iron golems before they are hit even if not in a raid or patrol.
Held potion and hat model pieces are offset.
Withers

Has different AI.​[more information needed]
Flies around it's target, then fires a volley of 3 wither skulls and 1 blue wither skull.
Spawns multiple wither skeletons when it reaches half health.
Uses a charge attack when below half health.
Fires wither skulls at a faster rate the lower health it has.
Always breaks blocks that it touches.
Doesn't regenerate health.
Explodes not just when created, but also when it reaches half health and when killed.
Has a different spawning and death animation.
Has a health of 600HP × 300 instead of 300HP × 150.
Boss bar has a different color.
Blue wither skull projectiles can be deflected when hit.
Wolves

A wolf when first tamed doesn't sit down.
Zombies

Idle arms are slightly higher than on Java.
Will break off from chasing a player to target closer villagers and golems.
Can see villagers through walls.
Zombie villagers

Pre-Village & Pillage zombie villagers are still available.      
Nitwit zombie villagers can become employed after being cured.
Saving and reloading the world causes the curing process to finish as soon as the chunk containing the villager is ticked.
Zombie villagers spawn in groups.
Zombie villagers never count towards mob caps.
Zombified Piglins

Using the classic texture pack turns the zombified piglin back into a classic zombie pigman.
Repeatedly lighting and breaking a nether portal causes mass zombified piglin spawning.
Player does not continue riding on the Zombified Piglin you were riding on after saddled pig you were riding on is converted to a zombified piglin.
Nether portals can spawn zombified piglins around the portal rather than inside.


=== Effects ===
Absorption

Is not removed upon losing the extra absorption hearts.
Fatal Poison

Exists.
Can kill the player irrespective of difficulty.
Given to parrots when they are fed cookies.
Same icon as Poison.
Fire Resistance

Causes the entity to not have a burning animation at all, causing the view of the player to not be blocked.
Haste, Strength and Weakness

Have more complex methods of calculating the increase/decrease in attack speed/damage per level.
The haste effect is generally more powerful than in Java Edition.
Hero of the Village

When received, the effect icon first appears in the center of the screen, with an animation similar to the Totem of Undying animation.
Can't be removed from drinking milk, using a Totem of Undying, or dying.‌
Hero of the Village animation appears on screen when a raid ends even if not receiving the effect.
Levitation

Works underwater.
Night Vision

While under the night vision effect light sources appear different from how they do in Java Edition.
Raid Omen

When received, the effect icon first appears in the center of the screen, with an animation similar to the totem of undying animation.
Regeneration

Works differently, with different sources providing different amounts of total health regenerated.


=== Enchantments ===
Channeling

Can be used to hit entities with lightning when they are inside blocks or vehicles.
Fire Aspect

Can light campfires, candles, and TNT.
Impaling

Deals extra damage to all mobs or players touching water or rain, instead of only aquatic mobs.​[upcoming: JE Combat Tests]
Multishot

Multiple arrows fired in the same shot can hit and damage the same entity at the same time.
Riptide

A thrown trident can hit multiple targets, but it behaves like a regular trident when thrown by a dispenser.
Sharpness, Smite and Bane of Arthropods

Extra damage is calculated differently, resulting in increased overall damage.
Can be applied to axes in an enchanting table.
Thorns

Can be applied to all armor pieces in an enchanting table.


=== Commands ===
Generic

/ability‌[Minecraft Education  only]
/camera
/camerashake
/clearspawnpoint
/connect
/dialogue
/fog
/event
/hud
/inputpermission
/mobevent
/music
In Java, the /playsound command can be used instead: /playsound [music sound event] music @s
/playanimation
/packstack
/replaceitem
/setmaxplayers
/schedule on_area_load
/structure
/transferserver
Coordinates

A relative coordinate can have the next relative coordinate right behind it (without a space).
Raw JSON text format

Format starts with an object containing only a "rawtext" list, rather than starting directly in the json text input (a string, a bool, a number, an object containing "text" or alike, or a list containing any of the prior options).
Allowlist

Is called "allowlist" instead of "whitelist.
Damage

Only allows integers even though damage can be fractional.
Execute

Subcommand context execution order differs from Java Edition.
Gamerule

More gamerules:
functionCommandLimit
recipesUnlock
respawnBlocksExplode
showCoordinates
showTags
Certain gamerule commands are available even without turning on cheats.
Disabling doMobSpawning gamerule prevents passive mobs and mobs from structures from spawning.
Gamemode and Difficulty 

Can be type with abbreviated forms and numeric IDs.
Locate

Biome names are not translated.
Place

Can only be used to place trail ruins and trial chambers.
Replaceitem

Blocks in armor inventory and on armor stands don't render if using /replaceitem.
Save-all, save-off and save-on

Are all merged into /save.
Scoreboard

/scoreboard players random <entity> <objective> <min> <max>
Teleport

Has optional boolean to cancel teleporting if it ends up inside collision boxes of blocks.
Tickingarea

Sets a ticking area to a chunk near the specified coordinates instead of being set to it, and Y coordinates is always set to 0.
Time

Time can be set to sunrise or sunset.
Title(raw)

/title does not support raw JSON text, only plain strings, instead /titleraw exists to allow raw JSON text.


=== Sounds ===
Dropping an item makes the "pop" sound.
Hitting the air makes the "attack" sound.
Jumping sounds when jumping off of and landing on blocks.
Silverfish and endermites have walking sounds.
Sounds for breaking blocks have a higher pitch.
Ambient sound effects can play at different pitches.
Stereo footstep sounds.
Some sound events are named wrong or missing.
Many sounds do not match Java Edition.
Many blocks have incorrect sounds assigned in blocks.json.
The sounds of walking on amethyst are louder.
New rooted dirt sounds don't match Java Edition.
The sound of placing Sculk Shrieker on the ground is not the same as in the Java version.
The sounds of the sculk shrieker when calling the warden are very different from the Java Edition.
Deepslate Bricks pitch sound effects does not match Java Edition.
Tuff/Dripstone hit sound does not match Java Edition.
Crimson and warped door opening and closing sounds don't match java.
Campfires, candles, and candle cakes make a sound when ignited by the fire aspect enchantment.


== Unsorted ==


=== General ===
Block and item shading is darker in Java than in Bedrock.
Clouds fade differently between editions.
Different graphics saturation level between editions.
Experience bar looks slightly different between editions.​[more information needed]
The experience levels are positioned higher on Bedrock Edition.
Dash bar turns red when cooling down on Bedrock, and turns dark purple on Java Edition.
In Bedrock, hearts move down when having regeneration, while they move up in Java.
Loading screen looks different between editions (both for menu, and loading up a world).
Random tick speed gamerule defaults to 1 in BE and 3 in JE.
Swinging animations are different between editions.​[more information needed]
The distribution of resource packs on servers is handled differently: in JE, a link to a downloadable file is required in the server.properties; in BE, it is included in the world files.
Default field of view is 70 degrees in Java Edition and 60 degrees in Bedrock Edition.
Many differences in particles between editions. See Particles (Java Edition) and Particles (Bedrock Edition) for more information.
Crossbow handling mechanics are different. In Java, the arrow loads onto the crossbow only when the mouse button is released; holding the right mouse button then fires and charges the next arrow. In Bedrock Edition, the crossbow automatically loads the arrow when finished charging; holding the right mouse button then fires but does not charge the next shot until the player clicks again; charging the crossbow consumes durability.
Missing block and item texture is different.
Hotbar is positioned lower in Java than in Bedrock.
Recipe book is collapsed by default in Java and expanded by default in Bedrock.
Item tooltips are different.
Beds display message "You may not rest now, the bed is too far away" in Java and "Bed is too far away" in Bedrock.
Beds display message "You have no home bed or respawn anchor, or it was obstructed" in Java and "Your home bed was missing or obstructed" in Bedrock.
Username is controlled separately between editions. Bedrock Edition username is always the general Xbox gamertag, while Java Edition is a custom one.
Java Edition username can be up to 16 characters long, Xbox gamertag can be up to 12 characters long.
Mining Fatigue screen effect moves down in Java and up in Bedrock.
Carved pumpkin blur is stretched to fit the screen in Java and displayed directly in Bedrock.
Credit sequence is skipped by pressing Esc in Java and clicking "Skip" in Bedrock.


=== World generation ===

Different chest loot between editions.
The bastion remnant loot tables in Bedrock do not contain spectral arrows (as they have not been implemented). These entries are replaced with arrow entries, resulting in an abundance of arrows in these chests.
The jungle pyramid's loot tables have slightly different weights and item stacks between editions.
The ruined portal loot tables in Bedrock have a lower weight for bells and higher weight for golden apples, among other differences.
The stronghold loot tables are more varied in Bedrock; storerooms may contain 1–3 ink sacs, altars may contain 1–3 emeralds, and the weights in libraries are slightly different.
Different generated structure, terrain feature and cave carver locations between editions.
In Java, nether biome particles are generated within the respective biomes. In Bedrock, particles appear everywhere, even outside of the biomes, but are visible only when inside of the biome, at which point they can be seen everywhere. Given their rendering behavior at extreme distances it appears as though they are rendered in much the same way as rain and snow.
The ash particles in Basalt Deltas move randomly in Bedrock, but move northwest in Java.
Buried treasure chests always generate at chunk coordinate 8 (out of 0 through 15) on both the X and Z axis in Bedrock, and at chunk coordinates 9 on Java.
The game splits the Nether into regions in which one of either a nether fortress or a bastion remnant can generate. The regions are 432×432 blocks in Java Edition and 480×480 blocks in Bedrock Edition.
In Java Edition, the chance of a fortress generating instead of a bastion is 2⁄5 (40%), while in Bedrock Edition the chance of a fortress generating instead of a bastion is 1⁄3 (33.3%)
Colors pattern of eroded badlands aren't the same between Java and Bedrock Edition.
Different extreme distance effects in each edition. See Java Edition distance effects and Bedrock Edition distance effects for more information.
Pillager outposts on tall cliffs or floating islands generate with an extended foundation in Bedrock Edition while they generate on a terrain blob in Java Edition.
The void start platform generates at Y=-61 in Java Edition and Y=-64 in Bedrock Edition.
Called Narrator on Java and Text to Speech on Bedrock.


=== Blocks ===
Bee nests in flower forests have 3% chance to generate in Bedrock and 2% chance in Java.
In Java Edition, magma blocks in the nether attempt to generate 4 times per chunk in sizes of 0–160, from altitudes Y=27 to Y=36 in all biomes. It can only replace netherrack. In Bedrock Edition, it attempts to generate 9 times per chunk in sizes of 0–106, from altitudes Y=23 to Y=36 in all biomes. It can replace netherrack and blackstone.
Daylight detectors output identical power levels at different times and different weather conditions.
Different anvil XP costs between editions.
In Java, costs are scaled using the final level of the enchantment being added. In Bedrock Edition, costs are scaled using the final level minus the initial level. For example, combining two Sharpness IV books into a Sharpness V book costs 5 levels on Java, but 1 level on Bedrock.
Renaming on an anvil has a maximum of 50 characters long on JE and 30 characters long on BE.
Nether portal blocks in the End teleport players to the Nether in Java and the Overworld in Bedrock. In Bedrock, End portal blocks in the Nether teleport players to the End. The behavior of end portal blocks in the Nether in Java is unknown.[verify]
Smelting cacti yields more experience in JE (2XP) than BE (0.2XP).
Text colors glows differently on signs when using glow ink sacs. In Java, the colors are brighter but not accurate to the palette, while in Bedrock, the text outline are too dark.
In the Java Edition chest interface, the top three rows for a large chest correspond to the left half of the chest when facing it, and the bottom three rows correspond to the right half. In Bedrock Edition, the top three rows correspond to whichever half was placed first and the bottom three to the other half.
Message to disable a slot in crafter has the word "Press" in Bedrock and "Click" in Java.


=== Items ===
The shield item looks different between editions.
Some blocks and items provide different amounts of furnace fuel in each edition.
Bundle storage bar colors are different.


=== Entities ===
The player slim model arms in Bedrock are half a pixel lower than the body torso part of the player model, compared to Java, which is properly aligned.
Tropical fish names differ between editions (full list can be found in here).
Gray-Sky SunStreak: Blue Dory (BE)
Gray-Blue Flopper (185008129): Blue Tang (JE)
White-Gray Brinely: Butterfly Fish (BE), Butterflyfish (JE)
White-Orange Clayfish: Ornate Butterfly (BE), Ornate Butterflyfish (JE)
Lime-Sky Brinely: Queen Angel Fish (BE), Queen Angelfish (JE)
Red-White SunStreak: Tomato Clown (BE)
Red-White Kob: Tomato Clownfish (JE)
Teal-Yellow Dasher: Yellowtail Parrot (BE), Yellowtail Parrotfish (JE)
Ghasts use different models between the Java and Bedrock, and some of their tentacles are different lengths.
Pillager spawning in both patrols and outposts works differently in each edition.
Cat spawning in villages works differently in each edition.
Mob spawning in nether fortresses works differently in each edition.
Different mobs spawn in different waves in raids.
Different villager schedules between editions. (See Villager § Schedules.)
Many villager behaviors, such as selecting job site blocks, sharing food, farming, reproducing, summoning golems, reacting to enemies, etc, are all significantly different between editions.
Different villager trading between editions.
General
Bedrock trade groups are based on the specific trade slot. Java trade groups are based on the villager level. This affects the chances of trades that are chosen. For example, Bedrock farmers always sell bread, while Java farmers have a 40% chance to sell bread (20% per slot, 2 slots). For simplicity's sake, these groups aren't listed as they still respect the levels.
Butcher
The emeralds for coal trade give the villager 2 XP in Java and 10 XP in Bedrock.
Cartographer
The banner for emeralds trade isn't "grouped" with itself in Java. See the below point about the farmer's suspicious stew trade for an explanation of this.
Farmer
The suspicious stew trade isn't "grouped" with itself in Java. This affects the chances of offering the trade. In Bedrock, the chance of offering the suspicious stew is 1⁄3 for a single slot. In Java, it's 6⁄7, as all 6 suspicious stew types are listed as separate trades.
Fletcher
The emeralds and arrows for tipped arrows trade may give Arrows of Decay (currently not in Java) in Bedrock, while it may give Arrows of Slow Falling in Java.
Leatherworker
The Journeyman level emeralds for dyed leather tunic trades rewards the villager 10 XP in Bedrock while it rewards 1 XP in Java.
Mason
The granite/diorite/andesite for emeralds trade is not "grouped" in Java. See the above point about the farmer's suspicious stew trade for an explanation of this.
The emeralds for polished granite/polished diorite/polished andesite trade is not "grouped" in Java. See the above point about the farmer's suspicious stew trade for an explanation of this.
The emeralds for terracotta and glazed terracotta trades are not "grouped" in Java, while they are all in one big group in Bedrock. See the above point about the farmer's suspicious stew trade for an explanation of this. This one is especially bad as the quartz trade 6.25% chance of appearing.
The emeralds for quartz blocks/pillars trades are not "grouped" in Java. See the above point about the farmer's suspicious stew trade for an explanation of this. In this specific case, this means that Java always offers both trades while Bedrock always offers only one. See the above point about the farmer's suspicious stew trade for an explanation of this.
Shepherd
None of the colored item or dye trades are "grouped" in Java. See the above point about the farmer's suspicious stew trade for an explanation of this.
Weaponsmith
The enchanted iron sword trade has a price multiplier of 0.05 and a villager XP reward of 1 in Java, while it has a price multiplier of 0.2 and a villager XP reward of 5 in Bedrock.
The emeralds for bells trade is offered by apprentice weaponsmith villagers in Java, while it is offered by journeyman weaponsmith villagers in Bedrock.
Said bell trade has a villager XP reward of 5 in Java, while it has a villager XP reward of 10 in Bedrock.
Different wandering trader trading between editions.
Bedrock has trade grouping that prevents items of similar types from being offered more than once per trader.
All dyes are grouped (1 for 3, 12 uses), all seeds are grouped (1 for 1, 12 uses), both mushrooms are grouped (1 for 1, 12 uses), all coral blocks are grouped (3 for 1, 8 uses), and all saplings are grouped (5 for 1, 8 uses).
In Java, entity shadows are more smoothly rounded than on Bedrock.
Foxes behave differently across editions.
Have different chances of holding eggs (15%‌[JE  only]/20%‌[BE  only]) or feathers (20%‌[JE  only]/15%‌[BE  only]) when spawned.
In Bedrock, they always drop the item they spawn with when killed; in Java, they have an 8.5% chance of doing so.
When killed, adult foxes drop 1–2XP in Java and 1–3XP in Bedrock.
Drowned equipment spawn rates differ.
Have a 3% chance to spawn with a nautilus shell in their offhand in JE, as opposed to 7% in BE.
In Java Edition, each cartographer sells its own unique explorer map that points to a different location than other cartographers. Purchasing another explorer map from the same cartographer results in the same explorer map. In Bedrock Edition, a cartographer sells explorer maps that point to the nearest unexplored location, regardless of whether it has been previously mapped by another cartographer. After a player explores the location, the cartographer sells a new map.
In Java Edition, the movement of a mount is controlled by its passenger, if both the mount and the passenger are mobs (not players). In Bedrock Edition, for most of rideable mobs, when its mob passenger tries to chase and attack player or mobs, the passenger takes control, otherwise the mount controls movement.
In Java Edition feeding baby animals reduces the time remaining until they grow up by 10%. In Bedrock Edition feeding baby animals reduces the total amount of time until they grow up by 10%, meaning feeding a baby animal 10 times in a row will cause them to immediately become an adult.
Most entities have different hitbox sizes in each edition.


=== Commands ===
Color code §6, gold, has shadow color 2A2A00 in Java and 402A00 in Bedrock.
Commands that provide block states is written [key=value,key=value] in Java, and ["key"="value","key"="value"] in Bedrock.
Completely different /tellraw syntax between editions, existence of /titleraw in Bedrock Edition, etc.
Java has /forceload, while Bedrock has /tickingarea.


=== Sounds ===
Different sound volume levels between editions.
The file names for music tracks by C418 differ. On Java, tracks use their title from the soundtrack, but on Bedrock, tracks use a generic name (e.g. "subwoofer_lullaby.ogg" on Java, "hal1.ogg" on Bedrock)
Menu music stops playing in Java Edition when the player leaves the main menu and stops playing in Bedrock Edition when a loading screen finishes.
Some music tracks play in different biomes in different editions.


=== Textures, models and animations ===


==== Blocks ====


==== Items ====


==== Entities ====


=== User interface ===


=== UI ===


=== Hitboxes and collision boxes ===


== Footnotes ==


=== Feedback pages ===


=== Feedback Discords ===


=== Notes ===


== Issues ==
Issues relating to "Parity" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.


== References ==


== Navigation ==