1.18  is a version of PlayStation 4 Edition released on July 24, 2015.  
[edit]


== Additions ==
Added the Greek Mythology Mash-up pack trial content.
Acacia and dark oak wood, planks, fences, fence gates, doors, slabs, and stairs have been added to the Creative inventory.


== Fixes ==
This version combines fixed from multiple console versions.9 issues fixed
MCCE-68 – The crafting recipe for dispensers accepts damaged bows.
MCCE-69 – The crafting recipe for carrot on a stick accepts damaged fishing rods.
MCCE-154 – Players without privileges can make your pet stand up.
MCCE-318 – Leads stay on fences when the animal is killed.
MCCE-351 – Location-based crashes.
MCCE-421 – Oak door recipe only gives 1 door instead of 3.
MCCE-447 – Bug when closing game on PS4 after loading a game about 5 minutes after loading a world.
MCCE-452 – Playing on creative world makes the game randomly close on PlayStation 3 and 4.
MCCE-497 – Lead role issue with new fences.
17 issues fixed
MCCE-86 – Chest corridors in Strongholds don't always contain chests
MCCE-165 – Invisible Mobs
MCCE-188 – music disk
MCCE-301 – you float above minecarts that are dispensed from dispensers
MCCE-339 – Cobblestone Wall and Jungle Fence Gate Not Connected
MCCE-380 – Not deleting correct world.
Fixed an issue with stacking doors.
Fixed an issue with the set day button in the host options menu.
Fixed an issue stopping players removing leads from fences.
Fixed minecart with TNT having no igniting animation.
Fixed an issue with mobs being unable to pass through an open iron door.
Fixed an issue where reaching the maximum spawn limit of villagers prevents spawning baby villagers after some of the villagers die.
Fixed doors being destroyed when placing them on an upper slab.
Fixed an issue where players with no privileges could make tamed wolves stand up.
Fixed an issue where players with no privileges could kill snow golems.
Stopped players being able to destroy minecarts when 'can build and mine' privilege is disabled.
Stopped players being able to open minecart with chest, minecart with hopper,  and saddlebags when 'can open containers' privilege is disabled.
Fixed a crash when approaching villages, desert temples, and jungle temples if the save that was loaded had a partially discovered village/temple in it.
Fixed an issue with wolves not taking damage properly.
Fixed an issue with disabling weather cycle and saving causing other host options to be wrongly set.


== See also ==
Xbox 360 Edition TU27
Xbox One Edition CU15
PlayStation 3 Edition 1.18

PlayStation Vita Edition 1.18


== References ==


== Navigation ==