v0.12.1 alpha build 11 is the eleventh build released for v0.12.1. 


== Changes ==
The player can now place blocks underneath themself while sneaking.
End portal frames now rotate based on the direction they were placed.
Shovel now mines soul sand and grass path blocks faster.
Silk Touch book is now in Creative inventory.
Zombie pigmen now have a chance to spawn with enchanted swords.
D-pad for flying remains after going to the main menu.
Fixed hunger depleting while in Creative mode.
Power enchantment is now as strong as in Java Edition.
Tamed wolves now attack target when it was hit with a bow.
The Enchanting table is now craftable in the crafting table.
Silk Touch now works on ice and packed ice.


== Fixes ==
25 issues fixed
From the released versions before 0.12.1

MCPE-7949 – End Portal Frames can only be Rotated one way in Creative
MCPE-8170 – Sounds are played twice
From 0.12.1 development versions

MCPE-9857 – Sprinting disables speed potions effect.
MCPE-9906 – Cannot get Ice and Packed Ice with Silk Touch
MCPE-9961 – Hunger bug when switching from Creative to Survival
From the previous development version

MCPE-10034 – Silk Touch doesn't Work for Ice
MCPE-10225 – Fly up/down arrows are missing after reopening a world
Other

Fixed redstone appearing in furnace screen
Snowflakes no longer flicker
Mushroom blocks are now obtained correctly
Taking off a respiration helmet underwater now works correctly
Sounds should no longer echo
Fixed trapdoor z-fighting on glowstone
Fixed crash on drinking two opposite potions
Fixed diamond spawn positions
Fixed duplication bug when renaming items
Fixed chickens not syncing properly
Cactus hurts in multiplayer now
Fire now hurts when standing still
Creeper hissing is now synched over the network
Vines now catch on fire
Fixed wolf [pups] being born with a collar
Ghast is no longer lit incorrectly when spawned with an egg
You can now place skulls on ice
Torches can now be placed on the side of mob spawners


== Navigation ==