v0.12.1 alpha build 4 is the fourth build released for v0.12.1.


== Changes ==
Quartz pillars can now be placed directionally.
Trying to connect to old versions of the game will now show an error message.
Added recipes for golden apple and enchanted golden apple.
Added enchanted books to the creative inventory.
"Stone Cutter" and Crafting Table screens will now close if blocks are destroyed while having it open.
Improved controls


== Fixes ==
24 issues fixed
From the 0.12.1 development versions

MCPE-9333 – Can't get back to the main screen. There is a back button loop.
MCPE-9441 – Less inventory in 0.12.0 than other versions
MCPE-9448 – Multiple crafting recipes appear for the same items
MCPE-9540 – Unable to make [wolves] stand up
MCPE-9542 – Big problems in domesticated animals ocelontes, wolf
MCPE-10310 – Changing D-pad size frequently sets it to the smallest size despite where you put the slider
From the previous development version

MCPE-9545 – World can be interacted with through the hotbar
MCPE-9552 – No inventory Only on the left-handed mode
MCPE-9568 – Crafting an enchanted Golden Apple yields a regular Golden apple
MCPE-9646 – Snow golem Bug
MCPE-9666 – Can't craft shovels or swords in multiplayer
MCPE-9667 – You can not close the inventory with the same button that you open
Other

Farmland is not destroyed when jumping on it in multiplayer.
Pressing the inventory button did not get the player back from multiple inventory screens.
Crafting recipes were wrong in multiplayer.
Partial blocks did not work properly in multiplayer.
Game crashed when entering the nether repeatedly.
When a controller is disconnected, the player continues the last action and other stuff.
Players cannot drink potions in creative mode.
Bane of arthropods does not deal additional damage to spiders.
Furnace displayed blocks that were not in the player's inventory.
Sky color is really dark. (Flat Worlds)
Left Handed controls option.
Regular golden apples and enchanted golden apples stacked with each other.


== Navigation ==