v0.12.1 alpha is a major update to Pocket Edition and a minor update to the Windows 10 Edition Beta that was released over the timeframe of September 4–9, 2015. For Pocket Edition, it adds many new things such as the Nether, brewing, enchanting, hunger, weather, and many more additions which helped to bring it closer to Java Edition, as well other changes and fixes.
The release was initially intended to coincide with the release of Windows 10 Edition on July 29, 2015, when it was announced at MINECON 2015. However, it was delayed due to obstacles in its development in the days leading up to its intended release date, making this the first version of 0.12 for Pocket Edition.


== Additions ==

This section lists additions since v0.11.0 for Pocket Edition. Windows 10 Edition had received many of these in previous updates.


=== Blocks ===
  Enchantment Table 

Version exclusive: Book on table glows.
Version exclusive: Custom name does not appear in GUI.
    Anvils

All 3 damage types.
Version exclusive: furnaces, enchantment tables, and brewing stands with a custom name do not have their custom name in their GUIs.
  Brewing stand 

Version exclusive: Custom name does not appear in GUI.
  Heads

Version exclusive: Inventory icons are not 3D.
Wither cannot yet be created.
Cannot be worn.
  Flower Pot 
  Soul Sand 
  Nether Brick Fence 
  Nether Brick Slab 
  Nether Quartz Ore 


=== Items ===
  Glass Bottle 
  Potion 

 Splash Potion
  Gold Nugget 
  Golden Carrot 
  Nether Wart 
  Glistering Melon 
  Golden Apple 

  Enchanted Golden Apple 
  Rabbit's foot 

(Creative only as rabbits have not been added yet.)
  Blaze Rod 
  Blaze Powder 
  Ghast Tear 
  Spider Eye 
  Fermented Spider Eye 
  Bottle o' Enchanting 

(Creative only as villager trading has not been added yet.)
  Poisonous Potato 
  Enchanted Book 
 Spawn Eggs:

 Blaze
 Ocelot
 Zombie Villager


=== Mobs ===
  Iron Golem 
  Snow Golem 

Java Edition 1.9 feature: The pumpkin can be removed using shears, revealing the face of the snow golem.
  Ocelot 
  Zombie Villager 

Java Edition 1.9 feature: Villagers retain their profession and clothes, which appear tattered, and have a green wart on their noses.
 Baby zombie villagers
  Blaze 
  Wither skeleton 
  Charged creeper 

Spawned when a lightning bolt strikes a creeper during a thunderstorm.


=== World generation ===
 The Nether 

Infinite in size, like in Java Edition.
Nether portals can also be up to 23×23 in size.
All items previously obtained through the Nether reactor are now available through their normal means.
 Nether Fortress 


=== Gameplay ===
          Hunger 
  Experience 
 Weather 

Rain
Snowfall
Thunderstorm
 Sprinting 
 Sneaking 

Toggled by double-tapping the sneak button.
Was previously exclusive to the Xperia Play.
 Difficulty 

Peaceful
Easy
Normal
Hard
 Heads-up display 

Added animation for switching between items
 Critical hits 
 Enchanting 
 Brewing 
 Item repair 


=== General ===
Cross-platform play for up to five players between Pocket Edition and Windows 10.
Controller and keyboard support
Can change controls within options.
 Options 

Version exclusive: Option to reverse the Sneak and Jump button's location.
The jump button has been moved to the right side of the screen.
Added a sneaking button in place of where the current jump button is.
These are the new default controls.
Option to disable the auto-jump feature.
Added camera mode slider on options (First-person, Third-person, Front third-person).
FOV option slider.
New interact buttons
Feed
Used when breeding mobs.
The "feed" button previously existed for wolves; now, it exists for all breedable mobs.
 Splashes 

Added splashes:
"So fresh, so clean!"
 Particles 

angryVillager
largeexplode
hugeexplode
blockdust
slime
enchantementtable
droplet
snowshovel


== Changes ==
This section lists changes since v0.11.0 for Pocket Edition. Windows 10 Edition had received many of these in previous updates.


=== Blocks ===
 Nether Reactor Core 

Uncraftable
Removed from the crafting menu and the creative inventory.
Still provides drops when broken (3 diamonds and 6 iron ingots).
Only obtainable via inventory editing.
It no longer functions due to the addition of the nether.
 Furnace 

Centered the result name in the furnace.
 Snow 

Version exclusive: Builds up multiple layers naturally through snowfall.
Version exclusive: Are now affected by gravity.
 Crops 

Breaking crops will now always drop seeds.
 Lava 

Version exclusive: Now appears brighter.
Now prevents fall damage.
When in the Nether, it now flows like in Java Edition.
 Water 

Improved water climbing against a wall.
Now makes it harder to break blocks underwater.
 Door 

Can now be stacked up to 64.
Crafting now produces 3 doors rather than 1.
 Packed Ice 

New texture: 
 Quartz Pillar 

Can now be placed horizontally.
 Dead Bush 

Will now drop anywhere between 0–2 sticks when broken without shears.
 End Portal Frame 

Now rotate based on the direction they were placed.
 Trapdoor 

Can now be placed on the bottom and top side of a block.
 Ladder 

Can now be hung on while sneaking.


=== Items ===
 Boat 

New inventory icons.
Now include paddles.
Different boat types' items now are their respective color.
 Food 

Now restores hunger instead of health.
 Pufferfish 

Now inflicts the following status effects:
Poison IV (1:00)
Hunger III (0:15)
Nausea (0:15)
 Rotten Flesh 

Now inflict the player with Hunger due to the addition of hunger, rather than Poison in 0.11.0.
 Beetroot 

Beetroot crops can be obtained from village farms.
Beetroot seeds can no longer be obtained by tilling grass blocks.
 Seeds 

Seeds can no longer be obtained by tilling grass blocks.
 Book 

Now use the updated crafting recipe, including leather.
 Spawn Egg 

Mobs spawned from renamed eggs have the name of the egg, and the names will appear in death messages.
Zombie spawn eggs now have a chance to spawn zombie villagers.
 Swords 

Can no longer break blocks in Creative mode.
 Magma cream 

Can now be crafted.


=== Mobs ===
 Zombie 

Now wears different armor and can hold items.
Now drops weapons and armor rarely.
Can now break down doors.
Drops its head if killed by a charged creeper.
Now able to detect the player up to 40 blocks.
Now drops iron ingots.
 Skeleton 

Now wears different armor and can hold items.
Improved accuracy.
Now drops weapons and armor rarely.
Can turn into a wither skeleton if spawned in the Nether.
Drops its skull if killed by a charged creeper.
Death sound changed to that of Java Edition.
 Creeper 

Now turn into charged creepers when struck by lightning.
Now drops its head when killed by a charged creeper.
Run away from ocelots (wild and tamed variants).
 Enderman 

Now avoids water.
 Slime 

Now have particles when jumping.
Now drop slimeballs.
 Magma cube 

Now spawn in the Nether.
Magma cubes now split when killed.
Now have particles when jumping.
 Zombie pigman 

Now neutral rather than hostile.
Now spawns in the Nether.
Now wears armor and can hold items.
Now drops swords and armor rarely.
Now drops gold nuggets.
Have a chance to spawn with enchanted swords.
 Villager 

Can now open and close doors.
Can now harvest crops.
Can now breed.
Now has angry particles if attacked by the player.
Now always become zombie villagers in Hard difficulty.
Zombie villagers can be healed using a splash potion of Weakness and a golden apple.
 Spider 

Now have a walking sound.
Now drops spider eyes.
 Cave Spider 

Now has a walking sound.
Now drops spider eyes.
 Ghast 

Now spawns in the Nether.
Now drops a ghast tear when killed.
Now makes sounds and noises.
Increased size of hitbox.
 Pig 

Now turns into zombie pigman when struck by lightning.
 Wolves 

Tamed wolves now attack the target when it was hit with a bow.
 Silverfish 

No longer makes sounds while moving.


==== General ====
Burning mobs have a sizzling particle effect once extinguished.
Mobs now drop experience when killed.
Improved AI
Improved pathfinding of mobs inside fences.
Now seek water and shade when on fire.
Now avoid lava.


=== World generation ===
 Villages 

Now spawn with only wheat + one other crop instead of all crops.
Now spawn with beetroot crops.
Will now spawn iron golems


=== Gameplay ===
 Controls 

Flight controls are now slightly smaller.
 Chat 

The player can now use the chat while in a bed.
Slight jump delay when jumping in a small space.
 Hotbar 

Hotbar now has 8 slots instead of 5.
Increased the length of the daylight cycle from 19,200 ticks (16 minutes) to 24,000 ticks (20 minutes).
 Creative inventory 

A lot of items that already exist in the game have been added to the creative inventory. This includes the following:
Glowstone Dust
Gunpowder
Redstone Dust
Not yet placeable.
Slimeball
Sugar
Magma Cream
Apple
Coal
Charcoal
Iron Ingot
Gold Ingot
Emerald
Diamond
Raw Porkchop
Cooked Porkchop
Steak
Raw chicken
Cooked Chicken
Baked Potato
Bread
String
Stick
Beetroot
Beetroot Soup
Mushroom Soup
Packed ice
Boats:
Spruce, birch, jungle, acacia, and dark oak variants.
Leather Armor
Chain Armor
Iron Armor
Gold Armor
Diamond Armor


==== General ====
Blocks can now be placed underneath the player while sneaking.
When tapping a block, the moving hand animation is displayed every time, not just when placing a block.


=== General ===
Changed app icon.
Graphics
Tinted water - gradient from aqua to dark blue when viewed from a distance.
New explosion particles.
Particles are no longer dark when inside of a block.
Version exclusive: Leaves in snowy taigas now appear frost-covered.
Only uses the leaves coloring shaders when the color for a biome actually changes.
Only samples the lightmap texture for non-transparent pixels.
Scrollbar
Always visible.
New texture.
The player can now swim in lava.
Updated sounds
Changed the volume of some sounds.
Updated the sound engine, which supports multiple sounds at once, and fixed pitch and volume issues for android versions.
New sound for dying skeletons and wither skeletons.
Digging and walking sounds are now the same as in Java Edition.
Explosion and item throwing sounds changed.
Damage sounds changed to that of the Java Edition tick instead of the masculine (oof) sound.
Fishing rod now makes a less repetitive sound.
Ladders now make sounds when climbing.
Water and lava now make sounds when flowing.
Name tags are visible from farther away now.
New random seed algorithm.
Better ordering on chunk scheduling.
 Options 

Third person view switch replaced with a slider bar, with 3 options:
Option 1 - first-person view
Option 2 - third-person view
Option 3 - frontal face view
Renamed D-Pad size slider to "Button size".
Custom server IPs must be unique.
Relocated pause and chat button to the top middle of the screen. (survival only)
Trying to connect to old versions of the game, like 0.11 or under, will show an error message.
Xperia Play support removed.
The addition of generic controller support was supposed to fix previous issues, but instead completely broke it.
The D-pad continues to work with the generic support.
"Play with touch" option removed as it's no longer relevant.


== Fixes ==
This section lists bug fixes since v0.11.0 for Pocket Edition. Windows 10 Edition had received many of these in previous updates.
71 bugs fixed
From released versions before 0.12.1

MCPE-3671 – You can't get out of lava
MCPE-4202 - Sounds on Android devices are incorrect
MCPE-5200 - Bug while mining/breaking blocks (Touch and Split Controls)
MCPE-5541 - Can't place pillar quartz blocks sideways
MCPE-6263 - Bows don't have particles in full charge.
MCPE-6806 - Automatic Flying Bug
MCPE-6854 - Auto jump doesn't work with carpet
MCPE-6882 - Finger free mining bug.
MCPE-6886 - Wrong Crops Sound
MCPE-6998 - When tapping the leftmost box in hotbar while walking forward, you walk backward-left a bit.
MCPE-7745 - Acacia and dark oak trees act like ladders
MCPE-7873 - Baby pigs can pass through slabs
MCPE-7880 - Hotbar size decreases when on split controls
MCPE-7878 - Cobblestone generators don't work for other players in Local Server Multiplayer
MCPE-7899 - painting de_aztec (or Aztec) does not exist in the game
MCPE-7901 - jungle leaves x-ray bug
MCPE-7914 - Putting out fire in creative mode
MCPE-7917 - Jumping mobs
MCPE-7921 - Inventory Armor Section Bug!
MCPE-7925 - Red Sand Suffocation
MCPE-7951 - 2x2 Jungle trees leaves disappear when you grow them artificially (bonemeal)
MCPE-7975 - Burning fuel icon not decreasing when the world is closed and reopened
MCPE-7977 - Upper slabs cause top leaf texture to disappear
MCPE-7996 - Monster spawners only spawn mobs with data value 0
MCPE-8000 - Mesas generate on top of water bodies in Bryce mesa biomes
MCPE-8006 - Skeletons arrows bounce off
MCPE-8098 - Water and Lava disappear when switching view distances
MCPE-8146 - Redstone Ore doesn't give off particles.
MCPE-8149 - Heavy shading on water blocks at the world border
MCPE-8154 - Mining consecutive redstone ore blocks does not light each block as they are being mined
MCPE-8166 - Lava can tick through walls
MCPE-8372 - Fishing rod and flying glitch
MCPE-8376 - Wrong Magma Cream Name
MCPE-8377 - Magma Cubes Do Not Split
MCPE-8392 - Lighting glitch when standing under a door
MCPE-8412 - Block selection overlay is only visible on one side of a texture
MCPE-8422 - Villager professions not showing correctly on client
MCPE-8466 - Mob pathfinding considers the void to be a solid platform
MCPE-8517 - [Wolves] cannot be healed to full health
MCPE-8522 - Falling beyond bedrock into void
MCPE-8572 - Baby animals can grow up in fences-type blocks and escape their pen
MCPE-8575 - Skeletons Aim is off
MCPE-8604 - Zombies think that slabs are full blocks
MCPE-8605 - Eating raw chicken gives you hunger?
MCPE-8606 - Water can turn lava into obsidian from underneath.
MCPE-8615 - View Bobbing Automatically defaults to on after restarting the app
MCPE-8628 - Egg shows snowball particles when thrown
MCPE-8630 - Fishing bobber (bait or lure) burns forever
MCPE-8641 - LAN Mid-Air glitch
MCPE-8654 - Wrong text when selecting which model to use with your custom skin
MCPE-8665 - Furnaces are facing wrong direction in village blacksmiths
MCPE-8670 - World crashes on load
MCPE-8676 - Mobs get stuck atop the border wall
MCPE-8702 - Baby zombie pigmen
MCPE-8707 - Double-tall flowers do not drop items when mined
MCPE-8826 - Chunks near to and of mushroom island biomes do not generate
MCPE-8853 - Carpet duplication when trying to place it where it cannot be placed
MCPE-8855 - Minecarts Wrong View when riding it down
MCPE-8881 - Baby chickens die in boats
MCPE-8961 - Cobwebs can't be broken by water
MCPE-8974 - After mobs get out of fire, they do not continue to burn
MCPE-9062 - Nether Reactor gives wrong message
MCPE-9073 - Vegetation generates through structures
MCPE-9150 - Unable to scroll a newly selected language off of the language menu screen
MCPE-9251 - Infinite Boat Rowing Bug
MCPE-9254 - Bow glitch
MCPE-9630 - No 32-bit support
MCPE-9930 - Lava-Don't stop fall damage
From the 0.11.0 development versions

MCPE-8333 - Not translate in RU lang for blocks
MCPE-8359 - Custom Skins Crash
MCPE-8365 - Wrong death position-VIDEO


== Gallery ==


=== Promotional images ===
These images were uploaded to the store pages on the update release.


=== Development images ===


== References ==


== Navigation ==