This is a list of Pocket Edition 1.0.0 development versions.


== alpha 0.17.0.1 ==
Alpha 0.17.0.1 (also known as 1.0.0 build 1) is the first build version released for 1.0.0, also known as the Ender Update.


=== Additions ===


==== General ====
World seed library
Support for world templates


==== Mobs ====
Ender dragon
Shulker
Polar bear
Endermite
NPC
Because it is an element of Minecraft Education, it doesn't spawn in normal play
It exists in .apk file
Agent
Because it is an element of Minecraft Education, it doesn't spawn in normal play
It exists in .apk file


==== Generated structures ====
The End
End city (Has no banners due to them being unimplemented features)
Chorus plant
Igloo
End gateway portal
End portal frame
Exit portal


==== Items ====
Dragon's breath
Elytra (called "Elytra Wings")
Ender crystal
Chorus fruit
Ender pearl
Eye of ender
Lingering potions
Popped Chorus Fruit
Spawn Eggs
Shulkers
Endermites
Polar Bears


==== Blocks ====
Chorus flower
Chorus plant
Ender chest
End gateway
End portal
End stone brick
End rod
Dragon egg
Dragon head
Purpur block, pillar, slab and stairs
Stained Glass and Stained Glass Panes
Stained Glass blocks use the regular glass texture due to issues with the rendering engine.
They cannot be crafted in Survival and are not in the Creative inventory.
Structure block
Only accessible with mods. Cannot be obtained with the /give command, or with inventory editing.
Structure void
Only accessible with mods. Cannot be obtained with the /give command, or with inventory editing.


==== Commands ====
/locate
/connect
/fly


==== Gameplay ====
Levitation effect


=== Changes ===


==== General ====
Enable Text To Speech for Chat Option in Music Settings
Added a UI Profile "Pocket" and "Classic (like in Windows 10)" in Advanced Video Settings
Various tweaks to Add-Ons, including improvements to loading.
Stronger validation of Add-Ons manifest
Tweaked opacity of pop-up windows for easier reading.
Creative search tab now selects the search box when switching tabs and when typing any character even if the box is not selected.
"Your home bed was missing or obstructed" message now appears if the player dies and their bed was destroyed.


==== Items ====
A way to get tipped arrows like in Java Edition 1.9, but it still works with cauldrons.
Tweaked enchanted golden apples so they have the correct amount of absorption health points.
Transferring items between containers should be faster now.
There is now an animation for throwing items.
Wearing a pumpkin helmet prevents endermen from attacking the player.
The player can now make huge mushrooms from regular mushrooms.
The player can now drink milk in Creative mode.
Beetroots and beetroot stew appear in the player's Creative inventory.


==== World ====
Increased building height from 128 to 256.
Strongholds now generate randomly in new chunks.


==== Mobs ====
Baby zombies now drop loot upon death.
Snow golems now attack silverfish.
Villagers now turn into zombie villagers when they are killed by a husk.
Now only adult cows can be milked.
Potatoes and beetroot can once again be used to feed and breed pigs.
Mobs killed by tamed mobs will now drop XP.
The Wither is no longer hostile to wither skeletons and strays.
Magma cubes no longer take damage from water.
Negative effects from splash potions no longer affect endermen (as they teleport away quickly).
Lured mobs no longer push the player around when they're riding a pig/horse/mule/donkey.
"Dye" button is displayed when trying to dye a sheep.
Untamed horses/mules/donkeys no longer follow the player when they're holding food.


=== Fixes ===
Sound & music effect volume issues fixed.
Fixed issues with text lagging when updating (& not updating scroll bar visibility, too).
Fixed various text sizing and spacing issues.
Lava and water should again go where the player points to place them.
Worlds again displayed in the Play tab for Win 10 players with utf-8 symbols in their names.
Fixed a crash when players with utf-8 symbols in their names tried to delete a world.
FOV slider now shows the correct value.
Stone blocks should now show up in all recipes when using the MCPE crafting screen.
Fixed a game crash on startup if the player had two monitors connected with different DPIs (Win 10 only).
Android keyboard will no longer switch to the numeric keypad if the player locks and unlocks the screen (Android only).
No more crashing when eating mushroom stew.
Realm names no longer overlap the number of players actively in the realm.
Fixed a crash when the player's internet connection dies while using Replace World on Realms.
Guardians, wither skeletons & blazes respawn naturally again when switching from peaceful game mode to easy/normal/hard, however, they will only do this in newly generated structures, not ones that have already been discovered.
Fixed the Store getting stuck on "Getting products..." screen
Fall momentum now saved even if the player closes & reopens a world.
Skeleton horse traps should now work correctly (multiple bug fixes).
The player now has to actually brew a potion to get the achievement.
"Local Brewery", "Monster Hunter" and "Archer" achievements fixed.
Cycling through commands to get to the @ character now properly displays all available values.
Minecarts with chests/hoppers/TNT no longer get stuck halfway in a block if they run into it.
Mobs can drown again.
Fixed a crash on mobile devices if game was launched without wi-fi enabled (MCPE only).
Fixed arrow hit sound effect.
TTS narrated messages are no longer interrupted by sending a new message.
Sprinting fixed so it doesn't stop unless hunger is low.
Fixed a crash with the /drop command.
Paintings can no longer run into each other at right angles.
Fixed a crash that occurred when selecting a world for Replace World for realms (iOS only).
Fixed a bug that caused mining to go slowly after a player reconnected to a multiplayer game while riding a horse.
Fixed a bug where the player could use commands to have buckets place other blocks.
Cats no longer change their textures back to ocelots when worlds created before 0.16 are loaded.
Fixed a bug where the villager reproduction rate was capped by something other than door count.
Fixed a bug where game would hang on a black screen during launch (Fire TV only).
Fixed a bug where endermen would get angry even if the player only looked at their torso.


== alpha 0.17.0.2 ==
Alpha 0.17.0.2 (also known as 1.0.0 build 2) is the second build version released for 1.0.0, also known as the Ender Update.


=== Additions ===
Added downloadable in-game music.
Added mash-up pack (currently does not work).
Added Seed Picker


=== Changes ===
Command /locate is no longer available
"100% dragon free" and "It's alpha" removed from the Splash text because the ender dragon has been implemented and the game is no longer in alpha.
The player's device will now check to make sure they have enough available storage for the game before starting the download.
Tweaked the slime/magma cube loot drops to the way they should be.
Tweaked the natural texture pack description so it doesn't get cut-off.
Lowest render distance value the player can have is now 3 chunks (because chunks get stuck trying to load if it's below 3).
Tweaked the blaze charge time for attacks to match other editions.
Tweaked chunk generation.
Capitalized the "r" in Realms on the dialog text.
Changed "Save world to device" text to "Download World"
Changed "Create new world" text to "Create New"
Tweaked the UI in the Realms selection screen so Realms don't move around slightly.
Changed sign in button size.
Added the ignite sound for minecarts with TNT & creepers.
Tweaked the error validation screen to better convey information about a failing Add-on pack.
Localization fixes and an update to the Rift launcher (Win 10 Oculus Rift only).
Tweaks to narration accessibility mode.
Play screen layout & achievement screen tweaks.
Text tweaks to keep them where they belong (and are readable!)
"Leave Bed" button updated.


=== Fixes ===
3 bugs fixed
From previous development versions

MCPE-17616 - Withers don't attack when summoned via command
MCPE-17623 - Wither attacks wither skeleton and stray
MCPE-17984 - Wither skeleton has normal skeleton texture after it summons
Other fixes

Fixed biomes looking strange when loading previously generated worlds.
No longer get "import failed" message when the player imports an Add-on that has already been imported- now they get a correct message!
The Manifest Validation window now activates during a failed import of an Add-on with an exceptionally long pack name or description.
Add-on packs with syntax errors in the manifests that worked in 0.16 will now also work in 0.17
Baby ocelots who grow up to be adult ocelots can now be tamed.
Enchantments found in End Cities are now the same strength as those found in other editions.
Horse armor can now spawn in End Cities chests.
Throwing a splash water bottle on an Enderman no longer crashes the game.
If the player joins their friend's game while they are in a vehicle or riding an animal, their friend no longer clips through the vehicle/mount.
All current textures will now update when switching resource packs.
Snowballs now dispense properly.
Fixed a bug with saddles/chests on donkeys and mules.
Fixed the Dragon's breath AOE (area of effect) cloud
Fixed buckets so they behave as they should in Creative.
Iron golems now have full knockback resistance.
Fixed a bug so now entering an End Portal always takes the player to the End (unless they're already in The End and then they go to the Overworld).
The player can't use fishing rods on the ender dragon anymore
Mob heads can be placed again.
Applied Add-on packs now appear correctly in the UI while in game.
Mushrooms obtained from shearing mooshrooms no longer have a blank icon in the player's inventory.
Rabbits again properly eat carrot crops.
Skeletons and strays will now follow the player during the day if it is raining or they are wearing a helmet.
Fixed a crash potentially due to some player models. (iOS only)
Fixed random colors on grass when a player overrides grass colors.
Fixed carried waterlillies (lilypads) in resource packs - the pack files were named incorrectly.
Eggs now cause knockback and make the mob/player flash when hit.
Now only one "you have been given..." message displays per use when using the /give command.
Fixed a bug that should improve response when players interact with some blocks.
Pushed blocks no longer flicker once after being moved.
Fixed bugs dealing with mob spawn rates (i.e. ghast spawn rate, increased the frequency of mob spawning in some cases, detecting whether a mob spawned from spawner)
Recipes that have items that have a damage value will no longer have the wrong craft number in the pocket crafting UI.
Beacon is now correctly highlighted in the pocket crafting screen when the player doesn't have all the ingredients to make one.
Fixed a crash that happened when the player and a friend entered the End Portal fountain to see the credits but their friend was standing in front of them.
Fixed a crash when an item went into a hopper.
The strays' clothing now renders correctly!
The store downloading layout now displays correctly (MCPE only).
Skin picket custom button now sizes itself based on the length of text.
Realms will no longer show up in the list of worlds the player can upload to their Realm.
Settings are now correctly displayed on expired Realms.
Paintings can have transparency now.
XP orbs and loot now comes out of mobs with the smoke particles.
The player no longer gain the Respiration effect from just holding an enchanted helmet.
Melted ice blocks now create flowing water.
All note blocks now start with the lowest note.
The sound of a playing note block doesn't fade out too early now when the player walks away from it.
Fixed ghast & lightning/thunder sounds.
Creepers no longer use their hurt sound as an idle sound (as creepers are quiet!)
Snow golem now has a special sound when they are hit or die.
Zombie villagers, silverfish, squid, and husks now all make the sounds they are supposed to make.
Leash offset for chickens corrected.
Fixed another game crash when the player respawned.
Cured zombie villagers now make the appropriate sounds when cured.
When beds explode in The End, they now also destroy blocks.
TNT ignition animation now looks like it does in other versions.
Fixes to unusual minecart movement and minecarts floating above tracks.
Elder guardian egg now renamed properly so resource packs can find it.
Fixed issue where texture packs were not applying to mob heads.
Fixed a crash after undoing an emoji in chat (MCPE iOS only).
Fixed a timing issue with falling blocks.
Ender dragon boss bar is now visible all the time during the dragon battle.
Ender dragon no longer respawns each time the player reloads the game.
Burning players are now extinguished when jumping in a cauldron with water in it.
Witches spawn from witch huts now.
Hoes till dirt again!
Removed Realms offers from the store in the Android beta as well as any Realms purchases and features (because Realms don't work if the player is in the Android beta).
Fixed a bug where the Ender dragon would appear in the Overworld after the character died in The End before killing it.
Fixed a crash when opening a .mcworld file (MCPE iOS only).
Fixed various unicode bugs.
Fixed the Ender dragon's perch-mode fire break attack's radius.
Ender crystals can now be destroyed in survival (Android only).
The player can now use the left bumper on the controller on the inventory screen to wrap to the right side (MCPE only).
Wrapping now allowed when cycling through tabs.
Some characters in the chat text box are no longer moved off screen when the send button appears.
"#" can be used in text boxes again.
Advanced video settings toggle now saves its state.
Chat can be closed again with the back button.
Scroll bars should no longer have their max overshot value become negative.
Fixed a crash relating to store screenshots.
Fixed a crash on launch if there was no speech pack installed (Win 10 only).
Chat messages again read in the correct order in narrator mode.
Now there's a notification when keyboard shortcuts are used to toggle the TTS accessibility option (Win 10 only).
Fixed some mob models not being able to be changed using mobs.json
The player now see the hand movement & TNT's texture blink when joined to a game and the TNT is ignited.
Fixed a bug where the Ender dragon would disappear if the game crashed while fighting it.
Command output from /gamemode command is now displayed for other players.
Fixed a severe FPS drop with lots of purple particles around the player while fighting the Ender dragon (Android only).
Blaze projectiles are now visible (Realms only).
Dragon head can move when powered without having to reload the game.
The player is no longer repositioned at spawn when above 128 world height and the game is reloaded.
Minecraft launcher no longer crashes when the hard drive is full (Win 10 Oculus Rift only).
If the player is on their friend's world, they can now see their friend switching between mob heads.
Protection enchantment fixed to be the same as other versions - it no longer protects against suffocation & cactus damage.
Caves are no longer pitch black in VR (VR only).
Fixed chunks of other dimensions (e.g. the Nether) generated when the player enters a dimension the second time on a server/game with a smaller render distance than them.
Play screen now properly shows Realms trial when the trial is still available but the player has accepted a friend's Realm invitation.
Achievement screen will now populate with a single list of achievements if suspending/resuming the player's game.
If the player dies and rejoins a game, they are again respawned in their last bed (or at world spawn if their bed was destroyed) rather than where they died.
90 degree fences have correct collision boxes now.
Fixed a bug where the sneak button wouldn't disappear when switch sneak/jump button option is active.
Loading worlds from templates shouldn't fail sometimes anymore.
Fixed a bug with using spawn eggs on spawners- it now behaves correctly.
Fixed a duplication glitch with Eye of Ender.
Ender crystals and projectiles fixed so players with short render distance can now fight the Ender dragon without issues.
Cocoa pods now show a crack animation when breaking them.
Various skin bug fixes.
Lingering potion effects now refresh every few ticks if the player is standing in its effect cloud.
If the player is in a friend's game and their friend throws an eye of ender, the animation now looks like it should.
Fixed a crash caused by the End portal on certain graphics settings.
Fixed a graphics bug where mob spawners allowed the player to see through the world.
Fixed a graphics glitch with End gateway blocks near water.
Fixed an occasional crash when the player returns through a Nether portal with a mob spawner nearby.
Fixed the Ender charge so it doesn't slow down over time.
Plastic texture pack particles fixed.
Fixed the error message for the /give command when invalid values are entered.
Dropped items now move to the next empty space when a block is placed on top of them.
Silverfish now take damage when on soul sand.
Fixed a crash when the game was resumed (MCPE iOS only).
Fixed a crash that occurred when trying to join a LAN game.
End gateway no longer suffocates the player.
Fixed a crash when a game was stopped with players still logged into it.
Thrown lingering potions now have a splash effect.
The armor and clothes the skeleton models wear disappear when they're splashed with invisibility potion
An animal on a lead should land safely on the ground now without taking any damage.
Shulkers no longer attack the player when the difficulty is set to peaceful.
Clocks again rotate at the same speed as one held in hand when placed in item frames in dimensions other than the Overworld.
Villagers now run from zombie pigmen.
Mobs no longer jump and turn near obstacles on slabs, carpet, etc.
Fixes and updates for City, Fantasy, Natural, and Plastic texture packs.
Weather now clears up after using the /toggledownfall command during a thunderstorm.
The auto-complete list now show players that are on the same world but just in different dimensions than the player.
The close button in the chest UI no longer overlaps an item slot when the player hovers their mouse over it (Win 10 only).
The d-pad on the controller is now supported in the Exit Minecraft prompt.
The player can now whisper to themselves in text chat in the game
The player can now see the animation of a witch drinking a potion.
Fixed crashes when loading terrain.
Fixed an occasional crash when moving the visibility distance slider in the options.
Importing a world with an Add-on will no longer fail due to duplicate world IDs.
Held items are no longer cropped or off-frame when playing in a different aspect ratio so clocks & compasses will show up correctly again.
When an Enderman is being hit, its head color is consistent - the bottom part no longer turns completely red.
Clocks continue to work when dropped now.
The player can no longer enter a vehicle while riding a pig/horse/donkey/mule.
Cocoa pod stems are now correctly displayed.
The game now registers mouse clicks as fast as the player clicks them.
Fixed lag when the player's world is saving.
Animals breed again (instead of just showing hearts with no baby appearing).
Chat position is fixed.
Throwing rate of snowballs is fixed.
The spawn rate of Golden Apples in chests is fixed.
Pointing the crosshair near the top or the bottom of a block while the player is in sneak mode no longer highlights the block next to the one the player wants.
Framed maps' green indicators no longer disappear from a held map after the player teleports to another dimension.
All zombie pigmen within range will now attack the player if they attack one of them.
The anvil no longer deletes items if the game is closed while the screen is open.
Leaves no longer act as opaque blocks when the Fancy Graphics option is off.
Leaf blocks held in the hand or dropped on the ground now have transparency if Fancy Graphics option is on.
Broken spruce and birch leaves no longer have different colors than they should.
The player cannot walk through fences anymore.
Compasses placed in item frames now show the correct direction towards spawn.
Minecarts with mobs no longer fly upwards after the player joins a game.
Fixed the looped sound for the ignite action.
Fixed a crash that occurred when hostile mobs die.
Fixed a crash when the player returned to their world after the credits ended.


== alpha 1.0.0.0 ==
Alpha 1.0.0.0 (also known as 1.0.0 build 3) is the third build version released for 1.0.0, also known as the Ender Update.


=== Additions ===
Added a message on the World Templates screen to tell players how they can upload a world to their Realm.
Command /locate was added back but it does not work. Attempting to use it results in the "unknown command" error.


=== Changes ===
Shulkers now teleport smoother.
Tweaked the flight time of elytra so it should behave as expected with the Unbreaking enchantment - also tweaked other elytra durability issues.
Moved position of chat messages so they don't cover the health bar, armor bar, or the food bar.
Tweaked lighting in The End so it doesn't look upside down.
Tweaked the time it takes to catch something with a fishing rod to match other versions.
Moving between tabs in menus while using the LB/RB on a controller now behaves as expected.
Removed bold headings from the Manifest Validation screen.
New ender pearl cooldown.


=== Fixes ===
Furnaces and enchanting tables no longer melt igloos.
You can now ride on tamed horses that are on leads.
Fixed a bug where the upper portion of a chorus plant would appear as if it was there after the chorus plant was broken (even though that part wasn't actually there anymore).
Fixed a crash that occurred after selecting the seed picker.
Fixed an issue where you got an "unable to connect to the store" message instead of being able to get skin packs and texture packs (Rift and Gear VR only).
Using LB/RB on a controller to select tabs in the Options menu now correctly highlights any tab that has behavior or resource packs.
Fixed a crash that could happen if you logged out while in the End Poem, logged back into the End Poem, and had global entities in the world.
Fence gates, daylight sensors, and observers no longer stop redstone wire from transferring the signal any further.
End rods can now be placed on the bottom of blocks even if there are blocks around them.
Eyes of ender are no longer duplicated when placed in an End portal frame on an infinite world.
Fixed a bug where mobs would take fall damage when teleported.
Vertically placed End rods now break gravity-affected blocks that fall on them.
Ender dragon audio is no longer present in the Overworld when a player is in the End.
Gliding on elytra can now be cancelled by jumping or by running into walls or ladders.
When in third-person view, your character no longer looks like it's spinning around when you look up and down while gliding with elytra.
Fixed some issues with Realms invites and toast notifications of invites.
Villagers no longer run exceptionally fast after being hit.
Fixed a crash on the host player's device when one of their connected friends left a LAN game.
Fixed a crash that could happen when attaching a graphics debugger.
The dragon's head texture no longer changes color when held in your hand.
Endermen again teleport when a splash potion is thrown at them.
End gateway fountain now always appears when the ender dragon is killed.
Boss music is now present during the ender dragon fight.
Light level below blocks placed at build limit height now correctly updates after the blocks are broken.
Fixed The End crashing when a player went through an End portal.
The sound effect for an ender pearl now plays correctly and can be heard.
Water can now protect obsidian blocks from getting destroyed by the wither's spawn explosion.
The Invisibility effect is no longer affected by a player's personal game mode changing.
Shulkers that are hanging from the ceilings in End cities no longer die of suffocation.
Fixed a crash that occurred when a player attacked the Wither with a melee attack.
The "Cancel" button now appears in the music download menu.
Fixed a crash when there was any input from a controller while the game was launching (Android and FireTV only).
Gear VR hotbar is no longer stuck at the center of view (Gear VR only).
Slime blocks again display when held in your hand (VR only).
You can no longer duplicate items with item frames.
Global texture packs with custom UI textures now apply on the start screen without having to restart the game.
The ender dragon's death sequence now looks the same whether you are hosting a game or playing on someone else's game.
You now need to stop riding a pig or a minecart in order to use an End Portal to travel to the End.
The End portal now always teleports a player immediately (even if you fly into it).
Bottles o' enchanting and splash potions no longer jitter in the air when thrown.
Fixed a bug where if a player went to sleep while it was raining in a Realm, it would continue raining when the player woke up but the rain would be visually gone. This made it appear as though the sun was not burning zombies or skeletons, fires went out quickly without explanation, and made cauldrons fill up mysteriously. Now it actually does stop raining!
Villages now spawn again naturally with different types of villagers instead of just farmers.
Iron bar cages around End crystals now respawn when the ender dragon is respawned.
Lingering potions now have a throwing sound.
Every type of chest no longer has flickering sides in either the Cartoon, City, or Natural texture packs. The front of trapped chests is now correct within every texture pack as well.
Arrows no longer turn black after hitting opaque blocks.
Arrows now bounce when hitting closed shulkers instead of disappearing.
Redstone comparator interaction with highly powered opaque blocks now matches other versions.
Pressure plates no longer get stuck in a pressed down position.
Farmer villagers now harvest fully grown carrots and potatoes.
Instead of teleporting away from the block, shulkers now lift gravity-affected blocks by opening and closing which causes the block to drop.
Donkeys, mules, and horses now make appropriate reactions to different food items.
If you use commands to try to give a player a stack of items greater than the max stack size (64), you now only get one stack of the item instead of an error.
When a player gets hit by a shulker and levitates, the player now sees the correct Levitation effect icon.
The appearance of leaf blocks is now consistent no matter what block you place next to them.
Fixed a bug where elytra activation was delayed.
Various bug fixes for the Plastic, Fantasy, City, Cartoon, and Natural texture packs.
Fog now implemented for End portals and End gateways.
"Could not connect: outdated server" message now displays when you try to join a server running Pocket Edition v0.16.0 alpha or earlier, instead of the incorrect "Disconnected from Server" message.
Elytra now have roll animations.
Mobs now behave properly regardless of block type (no more spinning on blocks made of half-blocks!)
Tamed animals now teleport with the player into the End or the Nether (if they aren't sitting).
Villagers no longer get stuck up ladders.
End portals can no longer be activated in existing Old World types.
Enchanted items have shiny effects again (VR only).
Fixed a bug where standing on a block next to an End portal would teleport you as if you deliberately went into an End portal.
Snow layers placed against other non-full blocks no longer delete the adjacent block.
Using spawn eggs in Survival mode now results in an egg being used and removed from your inventory.
Fixed a crash when you teleported away from the ender dragon during the summoning process.
You can no longer walk through shulkers as if they were transparent.
Worlds downloaded from Realms now correctly display the world name.
Fixed a crash when you selected a Realm invite message multiple times and then accepted or declined the invitation.
"You haven't added anyone to your friend's list!" message in Realms now displays properly (Android Galaxy Tablet only).
Head icons are now visible on the hotbar when the inventory is opened.
Mobs no longer jump and spin around if they move on to a bed.
You can see the point-of-view change when sneaking/crouching in immersive mode (VR only).
Chat messages now only show up once!
UI performance no longer gets worse the longer you use the UI when deleting items.
Sliders now behave properly on Android and iOS devices when using a controller.
The End Poem now has a skip button appear if you tap on the screen on devices without a back button.
The ender dragon continues to move and update regardless of how far away you are from it.
Dragon's breath clouds are now the correct color.
All supported file extension types on Android should now work on Gear VR (Gear VR only).
The hunger bar no longer depletes exceptionally fast when in a Realm.
Fixed some lag issues when placing gravity-affected blocks in multiplayer.
Chorus fruit and ender pearls now have a cooldown of 1 second.
When filled with lingering potions, dispensers now correctly shoot them (instead of magically transforming them into eggs when they shoot out!)
Tools make breaking noises when they break again (Realms only).
Dragon eggs now teleport when you try to mine them in Survival.
Fixed a duplication glitch caused by hitting something.
Game no longer hangs when saving a Realm to a device (Realms only).
You are now teleported when you eat chorus fruit.
Blocks held in your hand are no longer larger than they should be.
Bows can no longer be pulled back if you're out of arrows.
Squid no longer disappear as soon as they reach the surface of water (Realms only).
Diamonds can now be found randomly in generated blacksmith chests.
Lingering potions of Decay now have the correct texture.
Various zombie bug fixes.
Various rabbit bug fixes.
Various chorus plant fixes.
If you hit a spider in the daytime, nearby spiders won't try to attack you as well.
You no longer keep your armor when you die (it drops like everything else).
Fixed shulker health.
Rain, smoke particles, and shadows are no longer visible when you're inside lava.
Chests no longer appear to be open after being closed.
Mobs again spawn with enchanted items, and with the appropriate spawn and drop rate.
Endermites no longer gain super speed after reloading a world.
Undead mobs no longer burn at night when they're close to the wither.
End gateways now make the appropriate beams when created and/or used.
World generation from seeds is now consistent between Pocket Edition and Windows 10.
Fixed signs and mob heads so they are placed facing direction based on the player's direction from a block.
Pig saddle sounds can now be heard.
You can now hear the sound of the Wither being summoned.
Experience orbs no longer orbit your head when you pick up multiple orbs at once.
Iron golems you create will no longer attack you, ever.
Undead mobs no longer burn in The End.
The ender dragon no longer looks like it's taking fire damage when it is hit with an arrow while sitting.
Resource pack images no longer show up in your device's picture gallery (Android only).
Clouds are no longer rendered on top of players who are at or above cloud altitude.
Shulker bullets are now destroyed when attacked.
Shulkers now deal the correct amount of damage.
Trapped chests no longer look the same as normal chests in your inventory, hotbar, or when dropped in the world.
Fixed a crash that happened when a player got out of a minecart and then destroyed it.
Tamed animals no longer take damage when you take damage from a potion.
Endermen no longer have status effects applied from tipped arrows (because they teleported away before they were hit).
Bows enchanted with Flame and Power now work properly again and apply the correct effect or damage value to mobs.
You can no longer destroy an End portal with water.
You can again walk from a slab to a block with carpet on top of it.
Arrows fired from dispensers can be retrieved again.
Boats and minecarts now make sounds when they are broken (Minecraft: Pocket Edition only).
Fixed a crash when a player would spam the "Sign in For Free" button on the Xbox Live sign-in screen.
The first hotbar slot is no longer always highlighted after re-entering a world.
When you have a piece of armor in your hand and right click, it equips it if that slot is free.
Fixed a crash when accessing settings on Realms (Realms only).
Players can now sleep in partially-covered beds without suffocating.
Ghast fireballs set blocks on fire again.
Endermen again teleport after taking damage.
You hear the sound again when you are taking damage from drowning.
You can now hear the bubbling sound of fresh, hot lava!
Fixed a bug where items wouldn't get placed correctly into item frames.
Fixed the textures for the furnace, dispenser, and dropper when dropped in the world, in your hand, or in an item frame.
Fixed a crash that happened when hostile mobs died.
Now only the shulker's shell turns invisible when under the Invisibility status effect.
The wither is now healed by arrows of Harming.
Endermites now despawn after 2 minutes unless you name them with a name tag.
T-T-S now reads output from /say, /tell and /w commands.
Cave spiders now apply the Poison effect when they attack you.
The /toggledownfall command now toggles off rain on Realms (Realms only).
You can no longer join a game that has multiplayer disabled by manually adding the IP address.
You can again connect to a Xbox Live account on FireTV (FireTV only).
Cursor keys now work on Android (Android only).
Fixed item transfer so it automatically moves the stack of items (Minecraft: Pocket Edition only).
Brewing stands will no longer look as if they are still brewing even when they are not.
When using the Minecraft: Pocket Edition UI on Windows 10, scrolling no longer changes the hotbar selection (Windows 10 only).
Fixed lag when riding an animal or in a minecart.
Hovering over the chat with touch controls while controlling the camera no longer stops the camera from turning.
Destroying an ice block no longer also destroys the block underneath it.
Fixed biome graphics issues when loading older worlds.
Fixed the ender dragon's shadow so it isn't extraordinarily large.
Pumpkin and melon seeds textures now render correctly.
Fixed lighting for water.
Health bars for bosses now update and appear correctly.


== alpha 1.0.0.1 ==
Alpha 1.0.0.1 (also known as 1.0.0 build 4) is the fourth build version released for 1.0.0, also known as the Ender Update.


=== Additions ===


==== Items ====
Shulker shells
Aren't used for anything. They were added to allow players to collect them until a future update adds Shulker Boxes.


=== Changes ===


==== General ====
The game should start much quicker now and/or won't hang on a black screen (Android only).


==== Blocks ====
Redstone dust again makes red particles instead of white particles when broken.
Tweaked chorus fruit and chorus plant icons.
Glass should appear correctly again.


==== Items ====
Chorus fruit and ender pearls now have cooldown animations.


==== Mobs ====
Tweaked shulkers so natural armor is applied instead of absorption.
Silverfish's spawning behavior tweaked so it matches other versions.
Rabbits no longer spawn exponentially in icy biomes.
Polar bears don't sink into the snow as often anymore.
Shulkers now drop shulker shells.


==== Generated Structures ====
Tweaked igloos to use the correct ice blocks.


=== Fixes ===
Fixed redstone repeaters so they don't fire too quickly.
Fixed an issue with pistons so they do not activate when adjacent to an unpowered block that is adjacent to a power source.
Baby villagers now appear as grownup villagers when they grow up.
Players no longer take damage due to lag when they move up or down.
Strays again have a 50% chance of dropping an Arrow of Slowness upon death.
Paintings now work correctly and don't crash the game.
Items in the Pocket Edition crafting screen that don't have the ingredients in the inventory show up again.
Fixed a crash when looking at the panorama after coming from the world template screen.
Fixed an issue where a player could respawn on the corner of a block rather than the center.
/tp or /teleport commands work again as expected.
Fixed a bug where players would sometimes regain experience levels that they had before they died.
Fixed a bug that caused the Store to get stuck on the loading screen (Kindle Fire only).
Hoppers only pull in items from above them now.
Items a player picks up will now not move items to the hotbar if it would combine in the player's inventory.
Game no longer crashes if a player's spawn position is at the top of the world.
Fixed the constant block highlight flickering again.
Shulker projectiles now emit sound when launched or exploding.
Chorus plants and chorus fruit now have the correct sounds when placed and destroyed.
Swords enchanted with Looting no longer cause an invalid item to drop occasionally, which would crash the game when the item was picked up.
Fixed a pack import case where a .zip contained a folder containing the pack.
Endermen no longer teleport after death.
Iron golems no longer drown.
Players removed from a Realms whitelist who are in the Realm world are now always kicked from the world.
Trees that grow to full size from saplings are no longer invisible (Realms only).
Arrows of Harming no longer bounce off of mobs.
Fixed crashes that occurred when importing some texture packs.


== alpha 1.0.0.2 ==
Alpha 1.0.0.2 (also known as 1.0.0 build 5) is the fifth build version released for 1.0.0, also known as the Ender Update.


=== Changes ===
The ender dragon now goes towards the nearest end crystal when damaged.


=== Fixes ===
Fixed a crash when trying to ride a horse.
Fixed a crash when trying to feed an animal.
Fixed a crash when a player loaded a large resource pack and tried to apply it to a new world.
Fixed a crash on some Android devices that was due to an ExceptionHolder error.


== alpha 1.0.0.7 ==
Alpha 1.0.0.7 (also known as 1.0.0 build 6) is the sixth and final build version released for 1.0.0, also known as the Ender Update. This is the final alpha released in 2016.


=== Fixes ===
From release versions before 1.0

MCPE-16611  Blacksmith generate wrong loot
MCPE-16889  Ghasts don't make sounds
MCPE-17379  Rabbits spawning too frequently
MCPE-19124  Hopper bug
From 1.0 development versions

MCPE-18246  Lingering potions have no sounds
MCPE-18623  Endermites now have 'player/hurt' sounds
MCPE-19135  Ender charge particles
Fixed a crash that occurred on some Android devices.


== Notes and references ==


== Navigation ==