v0.14.0 alpha, the first release of the Overworld Update, is a major update to Pocket Edition and the Windows 10 Edition Beta that was released on February 18, 2016. It adds more redstone-related blocks, witch huts, maps, slime blocks, and a redesign of some menu interfaces. The update is the first to receive a name in the history of Pocket Edition.


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
Redstone components
Comparators
Dispensers
Version exclusive: Custom name does not appear in GUI.
Double trapped chests
Droppers
Version exclusive: Custom name does not appear in GUI.
Hoppers
Version exclusive: Custom name does not appear in GUI.
Repeaters
Locked Repeaters
New minecart variants
Minecart with chest
Version exclusive: Emits smoke when destroyed.
Version exclusive: Custom name does not appear in GUI.
Minecart with TNT
Version exclusive: Emits smoke when destroyed.
Minecart with hopper
Version exclusive: Emits smoke when destroyed.
Version exclusive: Custom name does not appear in GUI.
Cauldrons
Version exclusive: Water color can be changed by adding dyes.
Version exclusive: Colors can be mixed.
Version exclusive: Can be used to dye leather armor.
Version exclusive: Water bottles can be used to refill water.
Version exclusive: Can store potions.
Version exclusive: Will make an explosion sound if potions are mixed, and the potions will disappear.
Version exclusive: Potions inside cauldrons have a bubbling effect.
Buckets can now be filled from a full cauldron.
Red sandstone
Red sandstone stairs
Red sandstone slabs
Chiseled red sandstone
Smooth red sandstone (renamed to Cut Red Sandstone in 1.9.0)
Slime blocks


=== Items ===
Item frames
Version exclusive: Uses BlockEntity instead of Entity.
Version exclusive: Can't be placed in blocks.
Uses new sounds.
Maps
Version exclusive: Crafted using nine paper.
Version exclusive: Compass must be added through an anvil in order to show the player's position.
Version exclusive: Can be cloned using the anvil, instead of the crafting table.
Version exclusive: Can be zoomed using the anvil, instead of the crafting table.
New texture
Now has an interact button
Can only be received through inventory editing.
Ender pearls
Can only be obtained through mods.
Spawn eggs
Witches


=== Mobs ===
Witches
Uses new sounds.
When more than 11 blocks from a target and lacking swiftness, 50% chance of drinking a potion of swiftness.
Version exclusive: Added Camera back.


=== World generation ===
Witch huts
Version exclusive: Cauldron contains random potion.


=== Gameplay ===
Creative mode
Added survival inventory tabs and crafting tabs.
Added the ability to put on armor in creative.
The player now keeps their inventory when changing a world to survival.


=== General ===
Replaced Pocket Edition start screen with new UI.
Added more Achievements. (Windows 10 Only)
Added Export button to pause menu. (Windows 10 Only)
Button generates a file with suffix .mcworld.
Can be imported using the Import button.
Added Import button to world selection screen (Windows 10 Only)
Worlds can now be imported.
Can only import worlds from files with suffix .mcworld and must have valid world files in them.
Items now have an updated rendering system.
Skin packs
Redstone Specialists skin pack.
Textures
Update texture of language button.
Looks more like Windows 10 Edition button.
Settings
Change GUI size option.
New interact buttons
Open
Used when opening minecarts with chests and minecarts with hoppers.
Create map
Used when creating maps.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Trapped chests
Will now form a double trapped chest when placed next to each other.
Pumpkins and mob heads
Can now be worn as armor by the player.
Double flowers
Will now spawn their respective items when bonemealed.
Flowers
The hitbox of flowers and similar is not the full block anymore.


=== Items ===
Leather armor
Can now be dyed.
Boats
Now appear exactly where the player has clicked/tapped.
Snowballs
Now spawn when breaking snow with a shovel.
Splash Water Bottle
It extinguishes any fire block that it's thrown at, as well as a maximum of five of them in the vicinity.


=== Mobs ===
Baby zombies
Version exclusive: Now has a 15% chance of being a jockey. If they want to be a jockey, upon nearing the player or villager, they will check for one of the following to mount before attacking:
Adult chicken
Adult ocelot
Adult wolf
Adult zombie
Cow
Pig
Sheep
Spider
Blazes
Version exclusive: Now glow in the dark.
Creepers
Are slightly shorter (1.7 blocks tall rather than 1.8).
Detection range for players wearing their corresponding mob head adjusted to be 50% of the normal range.
Explosions are now much stronger and consistent in power
Endermen
Drop the block they were holding when killed.
Ghasts
Version exclusive: Now have glowing eyes.
Magma cubes
Version exclusive: Cores now glow in the dark.
Villagers
Are slightly taller (1.95 blocks tall rather than 1.8).
Will now spawn a witch when struck by lightning.
Naturally spawned villagers will now have more variety of professions
Skeletons
Detection range for players wearing their corresponding mob head adjusted to be 50% of the normal range.
Are slightly taller (1.99 blocks tall rather than 1.95).
Zombies
Detection range for players wearing their corresponding mob head adjusted to be 50% of the normal range.
Cows
Are slightly taller (1.4 blocks tall rather than 1.3, with babies 0.7 blocks tall rather than 0.65).
Mooshrooms
Are slightly taller (1.4 blocks tall rather than 1.3, with babies 0.7 blocks tall rather than 0.65).
Squid
Version exclusive: Now have bubbling particles.
Are slightly smaller (0.8 blocks square rather than 0.95).
Wither skeletons
Are slightly smaller (2.4 blocks tall and 0.7 blocks wide rather than 2.535 blocks tall and 0.72 blocks wide).
Iron golems
Are slightly shorter (2.7 blocks tall rather than 2.9).
Wolves
Are slightly taller (0.85 blocks tall rather than 0.8).


=== World generation ===
Mineshafts
Will now generate minecarts with chests.
Villages
Increased door to villager ratio in villages.
Double ferns
Now spawn in cold climates all over the world.
Moss stone boulders
Mega Taigas' moss stone boulders are rounder.
Huge mushrooms
No longer spawn in the water around roofed forests.


=== General ===
Graphics/Performance
Cleaned up textures.
Screenshots are full .png files.
Snow, carpet, and slabs now render faster.
Improved loading times.
Changed inventory button texture.
Creative mode
Chests, anvils, furnaces, droppers, dispensers, brewing stands, enchantment tables, hoppers and crafting tables can now be interacted with by Creative mode players.
The player can now pick up 64 of a block in creative by tapping and holding.
Settings
Broadcast to LAN is now grayed out during gameplay to indicate that it can't be changed.
Updated translations.


== Fixes ==
79 bugs fixed

Trapped chest does not provide power to redstone repeater.
All clay types are displayed as gray blocks on the map.
Double fence gates dont block users.
Player is unable to open minecart with chest and minecart with hopper.
Player cant close the chest window.
Crash when a server kicks a player for inactivity.
Mechanisms are being powered by redstone dust that is not aligned with them.
Building massive world structures can lead to serious performance issues.
Crash when a farmer villager runs out of seed to plant.
Controllers D-pad is inactive in the brewing stand interface.
Backgrounds & buttons in Asian languages are too short for longer phrases.
TNT minecart explosion on the curve does not destroy rail tracks under explosion.
Fixed most issues with chunks being sent multiple times.
Fixed server not running at the correct speed.
Amount of hits required to kill witch doesnt vary with the weapon.
Fixed out-of-bounds error in Inventory related to linked slots.
Player keeps all but armor in their inventory upon death.
Skeleton heads dont look hollow from the bottom.
Fence gates werent restoring their open state correctly either. The same pattern was needed as DoorBlock and TrapDoorBlock.
Character's arms are in weird positions on Kindle and some iPads.
The player is not able to open the chest when the character stands close to it.
Items from the bottom half of the double chest disappear when the world is restarted.
Missing Feed button when holding any kind of meat in front of an untamed wolf.
Missing Feed button while holding beetroot and potato in front of a pig.
No sound of swimming underwater.
Player keeps moving after Player opens inventory screen with controller.
Slots on anvil not lined up.
Minecarts do not stack.
The terrain flickers invisible if too many chunks are updated at the same time.
Mushroom stew should not be poisonous.
The darkening underwater effect fails to occur if the user rides a boat into a waterfall.
Flickering fence texture when its put underwater.
Clay generates instead of gravel.
It is no longer possible to stack beetroot soup.
Cannot use colors in chat.
Mobs stay aggressive after switching back to creative.
Enderman glitches.
Fixed door textures.
Fixed UI scaling issues.
Previously-saved falling blocks are once again properly loaded in.
MCPE-369  Animals cannot walk through open doors.
MCPE-7947  You cannot bonemeal 2 high plants.
MCPE-8002  Animals and NPCs despawn randomly.
MCPE-9357  Invert Y-Axis cannot be turned on when using touch controls on any platform but works as expected with controllers.
MCPE-9378  Auto-jump cannot be turned off when using touch controls on any platform but works as expected with controllers.
MCPE-9555  The rain and snow cross the blocks.
MCPE-9803  Korean translation error in 0.11.0 & 0.12.1.
MCPE-9866  Nether portal facing the ocean won't show the water.
MCPE-10206  "Play" button not translating when you selected a different language.
MCPE-10290  The buttons are bigger in cellphones and 7 inches tablet.
MCPE-10507  Tapping D-pad arrows highlights block beneath.
MCPE-10664  Enchantment tables hurt iron golems.
MCPE-10868  Killing then healing peaceful mobs brings them partially back to life.
MCPE-11086  All mobs drop nothing unless killed by the player (or spawned or hurt by the player within 5 min of being killed).
MCPE-11158  Boat doesn't travel for people on LAN.
MCPE-11166  Tamed Wolves display button Sit or Stand instead of Feed when holding Rotten Flesh.
MCPE-11269  GUI Bug (in Japanese).
MCPE-11274  Trapped chests do not combine to form a large trapped chest.
MCPE-11282  Giant mushrooms are no longer spawned in terrain generation.
MCPE-11583  Milking a cow causes players to drink the milk immediately.
MCPE-11585  Lily pads not generating in Swamp biomes.
MCPE-11586  Ghast attack animation does not appear when Ghasts attack.
MCPE-11845  Opening Menu causes the player to stop crouching or sneaking.
MCPE-11876  Iron golem takes damage by a cake.
MCPE-11898  Iron golem get hurt while standing in daylight sensor night/day.
MCPE-11932  Impossible redstone torch clock.
MCPE-12081  [0.13.1] Slim custom skin models are titled "skins.customSlim".
MCPE-12091  [Wolf] collars cannot display colors other than white.
MCPE-12097  [0.13.1] Held items do not move along with the arm.
MCPE-12102  [0.13.1] Player's arms do not move from the idle position when aiming a bow.
MCPE-12110  Inconsistent opaqueness of redstone lamp.
MCPE-12161  Zombie Pigman hat layer is missing.
MCPE-12165  Mushrooms are not converted into giant mushrooms.
MCPE-12261  Zombie villager's left leg is z-fighting something.
MCPE-12278  Fences are not connected to monster spawner.
MCPE-12330  Mooshrooms, cows, pigs, sheep, and chickens don't panic after being attacked by the player.
MCPE-12353  Iron golem suffocates on non-full blocks.
MCPE-12451  No Achievement for Rainbow Collection.
MCPE-12468  Background spinning camera at the language menu does not act the same as the main menu.
MCPE-12594  Translation error Espanol (Espana).


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==