Alpha (Beta for Windows 10 Edition) was the first development phase of Pocket Edition and its derived editions, developed for over 5 years, from August 16, 2011, to November 17, 2016. Alpha/Beta was succeeded by the full release of Pocket Edition 1.0.0 on December 19, 2016.


== Unique Features ==
Blocks

Water color can be changed in cauldrons by adding dyes. This dyed water can be used to dye items such as leather armor.
Cauldrons can store potions, and will make an explosion sound (not a real explosion) if potions are mixed, making the potions disappear. Potions in cauldrons can be used to make a tipped arrow.
Chests are directional; adjacent chests will not connect to form a large chest if they are facing different directions. Chests can be placed next to a large chest horizontally.
Glowing obsidian, which replaced the Nether reactor structure, except for the Nether reactor core block.
Invisible bedrock which generates at the edges of the world.
Nether reactor core, which was used to generate Nether reactors before the addition of the Nether.
Stonecutters, used to craft stone-related items, as there was not enough space in the crafting system.
Update game block, which appears when a world with blocks added in a newer version is loaded in an older version.
Items

Leather armor can be dyed in cauldrons, instead of in the crafting grid.
Leather horse armor can be dyed using a cauldron, and can be crafted using 7 leather in the shape of an "H".
World generation

Early versions used terrain and biome generation akin to that of Java Edition Beta. (more specifically, Alpha v1.2.0 to Beta 1.7.3)
Alpha v0.9.0 and subsequent versions brought both more in line with Java Edition 1.7.2 and beyond.
Biomes that would exceed the 128-block height are shrunk to fit in, although the maximum tall block is a 256-block height limit.
Far lands in infinite worlds generate Far Lands since X/Z: ±12,550,821, like prior to Java Beta 1.8.
Old world type
Generates as a finite world 256 blocks in length and width, while 128 blocks in height.
Nether and end portals can be activated.
Nether reactor, which was used before the addition of the Nether: generates a large spire made of netherrack.
Fallen trees, which are composed of a trunk lying on its side, sometimes with vines and mushrooms, and a stump one to two blocks away in the direction the rings are facing.
Flat world type
Gameplay

The HUD and other elements are adapted to mobile standards of gameplay. Interactions are made via touchscreen (both the iOS and Android versions of Pocket Edition have the same gameplay).
Crafting uses the MATTIS system, and items are disposed of by long-tapping their icon on the toolbar.
For better visibility, blocks being aimed at are highlighted rather than outlined.
Curiously, these versions of Pocket Edition have the fewest number of inventory slots for use, that being three.
Note that the One Block At A Time April Fools joke of 2022 is not the one to have the fewest slots, as via riding a horse, donkey, mule, or llama, you can access its inventory, and in turn your own.
Windows 10 Edition's crafting menu is similar to Java's and Console's crafting menus.
Multiplayer allows for four ways of player connection:
Through LAN, which allows 5 players to be on a single world.
Through Pocket Realms; Pocket Realms was closed in Alpha v0.7.6 and was available again in Alpha v0.15.0.
Through a user-created external server.
Through Xbox Live.
General

Add-ons, used to change the way things in the game look and behave.
Behavior packs, which are used to change the behavior of entities.
World templates, which can be used to import the world from outside.
Skins have extra pixels on the skin model, and multiple skin packs are available.


== References ==


== Navigation ==