1.0.4 was an update to Pocket Edition and its derived editions that added villager trading and a new skin pack.


== Additions ==
Added Villager Trading
Version exclusive: An emerald appears over a villager's head while the player is trading with them.
New Add-On format. All of the player's old Add-Ons will automatically update. The player may see warnings on those Add-Ons, but they will be fully functional.
Added the Storage screen in Settings to manage worlds, resource packs, and behavior packs.
Music and sounds can now be changed using resource packs.
Added the Strangers - Biome Settlers 3 skin pack.
Added "The Haggler" achievement.


== Changes ==
The models for the shulker and ender dragon can now be edited using Add-Ons.
Husks are now a little bit taller than zombies.
Baby villagers now have larger heads.
Added nitwit villager, but it can only be spawned by editing resource pack files.
Addition of CDN to reduce game file sizes.
Added low render distance options for older devices.


== Fixes ==
MCPE-1982 Fixed mobs going out of fences when reloading a world
MCPE-8166 Lava will no longer leak out of a Blacksmith's house
MCPE-19097 The Nether Star can no longer be destroyed by explosions
MCPE-13215 Mobs should really no longer walk in circles if they spawn or walk on a block made from two slabs
MCPE-17278, MCPE-13613 Fixed an issue where Villagers would no longer breed
MCPE-18258 Arrows will no longer turn black after hitting opaque blocks
MCPE-18162 Capes will no longer appear when wearing Elytra
MCPE-18161 Fixed the message that appears after flying into a wall with Elytra
MCPE-18606 Fixed an issue where players could not sleep through the night if there were players in another dimension
MCPE-18531 Fixed medium/large-sized Slimes and Magma Cubes not having jumping or landing sounds
MCPE-19396 Destroying a painting no longer destroys the block behind it
MCPE-19038 Fixed the End Gateway in The End regenerating repeatedly
MCPE-18752 Donkeys once again spawn in the Plains biome
MCPE-16320 Chiseled and Smooth sandstone now have the correct bottom textures
MCPE-19818 Fixed chunks that can't be refreshed completely when the client receives new chunk data
MCPE-19636 Fixed rotated item texture on dropped Anvils
MCPE-13602 Villagers will no longer wander too far away from their Village
MCPE-17951 Field of View will now increase properly when sprinting and Field of View is set to max in the settings
MCPE-20012 Villagers will no longer do farming work if they're not a farmer
MCPE-12886 Reloading a world will no longer turn thunder and rain into just rain
MCPE-17443 Fixed the placement of health and armor on the HUD
MCPE-16194 "DIAMONDS!" and "Body Guard" achievements will now properly unlock in Survival mode
MCPE-19817 Middle mouse clicking on a leaf block will always give you the right type of leaf now
MCPE-17601 Ghasts will no longer spawn in tiny spaces
MCPE-18427 Fixed a drop in performance when holding a Map
Villagers spawned using the /summon command will no longer just spawn as Farmers
Zombie Villagers of different variants now keep their professions when importing a world from 0.15.9 or earlier
Villagers will now run slower when attacked
Items that must be placed on blocks (i.e. Rails and Torches) can now be properly placed on top Slabs
Fixed dying twice when hit with two different sources of damage
Fixed the positioning of mobs that are sitting on other mobs
Spider Jockeys will now properly spawn with Strays or Wither Skeletons if the conditions are correct
Ridden mobs (i.e. Spider Jockeys) can now be pulled into Minecarts
"The End... Again...” achievement will now unlock properly
Fixed a crash that was caused by Ocean Monuments and Nether Bridges generating
Fixed infinitely burning fires that would cause gradual slowdown and spread more often
Fixed a crash when a player changes dimension and there are other nearby players
Players who receive more than one stack with the /give command now see the correct number of items received in the chat
Fixed several texture issues in the Candy Texture Pack
Fixed a crash when importing a file into the game (iOS only)
Fixed a crash when exiting a game session
Fixed crashes when launching a world with Behavior Packs and Resource Packs that had errors in the pack manifests
Achievements will no longer unlock in Survival if Behavior Packs are used
Chorus Plants will now fully break above the part that it was broken
The game no longer needs to be restarted before a shader pack is applied
If there is a problem with an Add-On's manifest when imported, the warning message will now appear properly
The host will no longer crash when another player accepts a resource pack while joining a game
Resource packs are no longer duplicated when a dependent resource pack is added before a behavior pack
Fixed crashes when using Anvils, Brewing Stands, and Furnaces
Fixed Gear VR worlds and Android worlds not showing up in each other's world list
Fixed a crash when using Elytra
Villagers are less greedy and will no longer immediately pick up items thrown at them
Villagers are even less greedy and will now throw food for other Villagers
Fixed a crash when importing a duplicate resource or behavior pack
Fixed items sticking around in Item Frames after being destroyed
Various texture fixes
Fixed graphical issues with HUD Add-Ons showing the player
Armor will render properly in worlds that no longer have resource packs applied
Worlds last played before 0.9.0 can once again be opened


== Gallery ==


== Videos ==


== References ==


== Navigation ==