Potato Mobs are a joke subcategory of mobs, added in 24w14potato. They can spawn naturally in the Potato dimension, although not every mob spawned in this dimension is considered a potato mob.
All potato mobs receive bonus damage from the potato peeler.


== New mobs ==
From five mobs added in this update, three are considered potato mobs. They are separate entities and hold their potato status no matter the dimension they are in.

Batato
Spawns commonly in the dark areas of Potato dimension, uncommonly in the Overworld.
Mega spud
Spawns once in every colosseum.
Poisonous potato zombie
Spawns commonly in the dark areas of Potato dimension, uncommonly in the Overworld, as well as during the mega spud's third phase.


== Existing mobs ==
Some other mobs received potato variants, that appear if the mob is in the Potato dimension. They have custom textures and some of them drop potato peels, if killed by the potato peeler, but only while being in this dimension. This data is not stored on the mob, but rather enforced by the dimension itself: for example, a normal chicken immediately transforms into a potato chicken upon arriving in the Potato, and vice versa.

 Armadillo
Spawns in the hash biome, as well as during the mega spud's second phase.
Has a unique texture only if its curled up, but receives bonus damage from potato peeler in its uncurled state as well.
 Bee
Spawns from bee nests that generate in arboretum and corruption biomes.
Drops yellow or black potato peels if killed by potato peeler.
 Chicken
Spawns in arboretum, corruption and fields biomes, as well as during the mega spud's first phase.
Drops normal potato peels if killed by potato peeler.
 Cow
Spawns in arboretum, corruption and fields biomes.
Drops brown potato peels if killed by potato peeler.
 Creeper
Spawns commonly in the dark areas of Potato dimension, as well as during the mega spud's sixth phase.
Drops green potato peels if killed by potato peeler.
 Enderman
Spawns commonly in the dark areas of Potato dimension.
Drops black potato peels if killed by potato peeler.
 Giant
Spawns during the mega spud's tenth phase.
Despite its texture not being potato-themed, it is considered a potato mob.
 Husk
Spawns in the hash biome.
  Pig
Spawns in arboretum, corruption and fields biomes.
Drops pink potato peels if killed by potato peeler.
Lowers its eyebrow whenever it sees a player.
 Sheep
Spawns in arboretum, corruption and fields biomes.
Drops the potato peels corresponding to its wool color if killed by anything, or if sheared by potato peeler.
A default white sheep does not actually appear white, as there are no white potato peels. Instead, it drops the uncolored potato peels.
 Skeleton
Spawns commonly in the dark areas of Potato dimension.
Drops light gray potato peels if killed by potato peeler.
 Spider
Spawns commonly in the dark areas of Potato dimension, as well as during the mega spud's fourth phase.
Drops gray potato peels if killed by potato peeler.
 Stray
Spawns during the mega spud's fifth phase.
Drops light blue potato peels if killed by potato peeler.
 Villager
Spawns in potato villages.
 Bogged
Any other mobs, whether spawned naturally or by player, are not considered potato mobs.


== Navigation ==