Purple Parrot Party Palace, also known as Purple Party Parrot Palace, is a  Marketplace map that explores various features added in the Better Together Update, such as parrots, armor stands, music discs, banners, and firework rockets.


== Summary ==


=== Jungle ===

The map opens inside of a treehouse in a jungle, the player awakening from their green bed. Inside of an ender chest, labeled as a "mailbox," the player will find a book named Invitation, by "Pete."

In order to reach the party, the player is encouraged by two signs to glide there using a pair of elytra. Next to an enchanting table in the room is a chest, filled with 18 stacks of firework rockets and five elytra. Behind the table is a plank the player can use to jump off and fly, gaining height using the rockets. If the player is disinterested in that, they can also lift off from an upper floor with a crafting table, and a lower floor that leads to a colossal flight of stairs, where they can climb down to the ground via vines. After taking flight, the player will be guided by several purple beacons, marking a path that contains a surface path for those who don't travel by elytra.
On the beach, the surface path will convert to a jungle planks stairway that transitions into a bridge and then a ladder, and then a bridge through the jungle. Eventually, that will lead into a small hut, with a chest full of bread, and two upper floors. The middle floor will have another bridge, whereas the top gives room to glide if desired. Continuing forward, the bridge is noticeably more narrow, with birch fences on the side, giving little actual protection. The end of the bridge leads to several more ladders, as the player climbs up to a mountain scraping the sky.

Walking through clouds, the player will have to climb up many more stairs, before arriving at a cobblestone structure. This can be identified by both its almost exclusively cobblestone build, and a mysterious room lined with torches. From there the player will now march up narrow strips of cobblestone stairs, snow gradually appearing until the player may notice a statue of a parrot. At that point more and more statues will appear, the player elevating themselves with smooth stone slabs and then descending to follow many more beacons. Soon enough, the titular palace will be visible not terribly far away, accessible from a polished diorite staircase. 


=== Purple Palace ===
Passing through a diorite chamber, the player will finally reach the eponymous palace, entering its turf by a tower lined with blocks of quartz and blocks of emerald, near another beacon. Before the player can travel any further, they might notice another chest, containing a book labeled Misplaced Music.

Now given an objective, the player will find a Fireworks Station below the diorite stairs. Inside serves as a mini-tutorial for crafting fireworks, with item frames illustrating recipes, and chests full of paper, gunpowder, dyes, and firework stars. Beside the  of that is the Fireworks Crafting Room, filled with many crafting tables and full chests of many items used for fireworks, including fire charges, diamonds, and creeper heads. Behind that is a dispenser, set up for the purpose of testing "your own fireworks," and next to that are three more dispensers for specific types of fireworks. Exiting through the Fireworks Station, the player will find a similar build, this time for a blue firework specifically, and below that is a button for activating "a big fireworks show," in truth giving the player music disc 11 In the distance, the player will eye a fireworks contraption in a lake, identifiable by several glowstone blocks.

Returning to the plaza, the player will be greeted with a large fountain, oak trees, quartz pillars, and a small station for playing music discs. Inside the dropper will be 13, Mall, Chirp, Blocks, and Cat, which can then be automatically loaded into a jukebox. Nearby is a sign promoting the Music Pack, addressing the potential lack of music. From there the player can enter the Hall of Heraldry, a center for crafting banners similar to the Fireworks Station but much larger, with hundreds of torches lining up paths and pillars covered in vines. Amongst the crafting tutorials, the player can find massive statues and stained glass windows of a purple parrot, and at the end a prompt to enter 11. Placing the disc into the jukebox will reveal the disc for Wait.
Nearly complete with the miniature quest, the player can advance to the end of the plaza, adorned with a brief tip on armor stands; they can take multiple poses and hold many items, such as elytra, golden leggings, and bottle o' enchanting. Another brief tip will be given a step above, that armor stands can detect redstone signals, before the player passes two stands wearing diamond armor and enter the building. Walking onto a wooden pressure plate will cause many parrots to spawn and float down onto the player. Placing the disc will cause the parrots to begin dancing, purple fireworks to go off, and armor stands to dance to the rhythm. This soft-concludes the map.


== Quotes ==


== History ==


== Gallery ==


=== Promotional images ===


=== Screenshots ===


== References ==


== Navigation ==