Sample Parkour World, also called Parkour Sample World or just Parkour Map, is a world made to teach and demonstrate parkour mechanics. Unlike many other maps, it was not distributed through the Marketplace, but instead a GitHub page.


== Summary ==

The player will bluntly spawn inside of a chamber made out of dark prismarine, holding a full stack of cooked beef near a spawn point setter. Beside that is a chest, containing a second stack of beef. The first challenge will be simple, being a few prismarine brick pillars that lead to a room with a small platform and ladder in case the player falls into a very small pit. Jumping past that will lead to two similar platform situations with slightly different proportions, the second requiring very specific timing running over the ladder to cross. After that the player will balance on top of prismarine walls, before climbing up to a higher level with a new spawn point.
At this point, the ladders become the platform, players having to cling onto them several times. At first, this will simply be on a prismarine wall, then moving into a chamber where they must circle a dark prismarine tower. To make it more manageable, the floor will be made of hay bales. At the top, the player will find a divided floor in a triangular position, with sea lanterns preventing the player from jumping over the hole. Instead, they must sprint, and discover warped doors.
Exiting the prismarine sector, the player will find a new aesthetic, mostly consisted of black and gray concrete, and redstone lamps, with another spawn point setter near. The first challenge here will be to cross over divisions made of soul sand, slowly down sprints, and then the opposite, blue ice. The blue ice platforms will lead into another room, where the player must cross two lone blue ice blocks before climbing another ladder. There will be another spawn point, this floor higher than ever, as the player will need to take a leap of faith onto slime blocks. If the player is able to land that, they will arrive in a similar chamber where they must cling onto honey blocks, which then transition to platforming across big dripleaves.
At the end of the dripleaf hall will be an iron door, opening that with a lever will reveal an expansive room made of quartz bricks and glowstone. The path out is a spiral of nether brick blocks, with additional steps the player must activate using levers. The first will be right beside another spawn point switch, triggering a piston to push a nether brick block. After that the player will have to platform across the piston head itself, then two nether brick walls before reaching another spawn setter. The final two steps will seem like a cake walk, the first lever being easily reachable. The second will seem out of reach initially, but can be grabbed by sneaking. 

The end will be in sight by this point, being a rainbow colored room. This final challenge will be slightly different, however, with a nearby chest containing a bow and stack of arrows. Firing an arrow at a button will trigger two nether brick platforms, however a set back will come when jumping to the next area; the player will grab the arrow, causing the blocks to retract into the wall. The final two platforms will have pressure plates on top, which will trigger two dispensers that fire arrows. A trick is to use the bow to shoot the plates, triggering the arrows before the player will touch them.
Finally, the player will pass a tripwire, summoning a fireworks show and the text "You Win!" This concludes the map.


== Quotes ==


== History ==


== Gallery ==


=== Screenshots ===


== See also ==
Tutorial Skin Pack, a similar sample product


== Navigation ==