A server provides a game environment for players to play multiplayer with others over the Internet or a local area network (LAN). Players are connected to a server using the Minecraft client software, and the server is hosted using the server software, as server.jar[JE  only] or Bedrock Dedicated Server[BE  only].


== Archetypes ==

Multiple archetypes of Minecraft multiplayer servers exist, distinguished by the unique gameplay features, rules, and societal structures that they implement. Each server is unique from the others, and often, the line between archetypes is blurred or indistinguishable. Many special types of servers rely on the use of map editors or the Creative game mode to build custom maps, and some use modded server software to provide additional features outside the vanilla experience. Some of these servers are heavily competitive, involving player versus player (PvP) and unique gameplay aspects of minigames; however, some simply followed the base vanilla survival experience.
Common archetypes found in Minecraft servers may include:

Survival, also known as Survival Multiplayer (SMP): Servers that follow the Survival mode progression. Player activities ranging from collecting resources, building bases and structures, fighting monsters, exploring the world, and reaching the End. They typically work together to complete some sort of objectives and reach some kind of progression. Players may also develop relationships and rivalries across different groups. Servers specialized in this field are faction servers.
Creative: Servers that allow the freedom and control of the Creative mode. Players create and design elaborate buildings, ranging small-scale works from houses, bridges, pixel arts, player statues, to massive projects such as mansions, castles, towns, and cities. A common type of Creative server is plot servers, where players are given their own plot of land which they can control, build, and destroy using Creative mode. They are limited only to their plots, which prevents griefing in other players' plots.
Roleplay: Servers that are structured around narrative-driven interactions, in which players adopt fictional personas and engage in collaborative storytelling. These servers often establish original lore, scripted scenarios, and persistent worldbuilding, supported by custom maps, in-game voice support, and custom content using mods, and multiple player hierarchies.
Minigame: Servers that host multiple minigames where players compete with one another. These minigames are short games contained within Minecraft, having different gameplay elements from the main game itself. Popular minigames include spleef, capture the flag, sky wars, bed wars, and more. Usually, the last player standing wins a reward, often in the form of game currency, which lets players use and trade for cosmetics, kits, upgrades, and other types of unlockables. Players may also compete in the leaderboards, which show the top-performing players of these minigames.
Faction:  Similar in concept to Survival servers, but players build organized groups and regularly play together as a team, which are called factions. They typically partake in activities such as claiming lands, building bases, and farming mobs or items, while some compete and challenge other factions, such as faction wars, base raiding, player versus player (PvP), and other form of rivalries and relationships between factions.
Anarchy: Servers that are dedicated to having no rules at all, allowing the freedom and usage of cheating and exploiting, which are prominent in these servers. Anarchy servers may also allow griefing, unmoderated user-generated contents, inappropriate language, and behaviors which are frowned upon in the Minecraft community.
Customized: Servers that provide a playing experience very different to the vanilla game, with the use of add-ons or mods.


== Variants ==
Multiple variants of Minecraft server software exist, and each of them is used for different purposes and has varying levels of setup and features.

The default server software (server.jar in Java Edition and BDS in Bedrock Edition) provides a stable environment for players to play a multiplayer game. It's provided free of charge by Mojang Studios for Windows, macOS[JE  only], and Linux systems.
The game also provides an Open to LAN feature that turns singleplayer worlds into a multiplayer game accessible to people on the local network. Worlds and servers using this feature automatically pop up on the server list[JE  only]/worlds list[BE  only] without needing to specify the server address.
In Bedrock Edition, this feature is extended to the Xbox network. Players can join a singleplayer world if they are friends with the world owner on the Xbox network. The owner can also invite other people to join their world through Xbox.
Minecraft Realms provides a multiplayer server similar to the default software, which is always online. They are provided by Mojang Studios as a paid subscription-based server hosting service. Realms also provides additional features, such as automatic world backup, in-game server and world management, and free minigame maps designed for multiplayer.
Realms are limited in player slots. A Realms server can only provide up to 10 players playing simultaneously in a multiplayer game (or 2 with a Core subscription). However, this does not apply to the Realm's invite slots, e.g. a Realm can have more than 10 players invited.
Related tutorials for setting up these kinds of servers also exist, see Tutorials  Server setup.


== Management ==

Servers are generally managed by administrators and operators. The administrator generally takes responsibility for the server. It may be that the server is running from their machine, or that they simply have jurisdiction over a server. Operators generally assist the administrators in moderating a server and to prevent unruly players and griefers. Both operators and administrators have access to various commands to ensure the smooth running of the server. On a default server, players are assigned as operator or administrator by using the /op <playername> command, or by editing the ops.json in the server directory, then restarting the server.
Features of a Minecraft server, such as the server's address, port, message of the day (MOTD), and others, can be configured on server.properties file, which contains key-value pairs that enable or disable such features. It's located under the server's working directory, alongside other resources. By default, the server listens to all IP address on 25565 TCP port[JE  only] or 19132 UDP port[BE  only].
Servers do not strictly require access to Minecraft online services, and can be played on an isolated local network without Internet connection. Servers use Minecraft online services to fetch player skins and verify genuine Minecraft accounts, which prevents hackers and griefers from using false names while on such a server. This feature can be enabled or disabled by setting online-mode property in the server.properties.
The server saves the level in the "world" folder every 30 seconds if chunks have been modified by default.


=== Whitelist ===
Whitelist or allowlist[BE  only] is a feature provided by the server that allows and blocks specific players from joining a multiplayer game. It works by checking UUID or XUID[BE  only] of the players who have been whitelisted on a server. Its configured in whitelist.json or allowlist.json file inside the server.jar's working directory, and can be activated by setting white-list or allow-list server property.
Each entry in whitelist.json or allowlist.json is a JSON object identifying which players the server should allow access.

As well as manually editing the file, the /whitelist command can also be used by operators. When editing the file manually while the server is running, the command /whitelist reload needs to be used for the changes to take effect.
In Java Edition, server operators can always connect when the whitelist is active, even if their UUIDs do not appear in the whitelist. This differs from Bedrock Edition, where players must be whitelisted regardless of operator status.
In Java Edition servers with online-mode disabled, the whitelist checks against the offline UUID of players, converted from their usernames.


=== Operator list ===

In Java Edition, players' operator status is managed by the server in the ops.json file. Operators can execute commands, and their privileges allow control for certain aspects of the game, e.g. teleporting players, summoning entities, changing game modes, and more.
Each entry in ops.json is similar to a whitelist, with uuid and name being the player's identifier.

Commands /op and /deop can set a player's operator status.


=== Permission list ===

In Bedrock Edition, players' permissions are managed by the permissions.json file. The file contains a list of JSON objects with players' XUID and permissions. Note that online-mode needs to be enabled for this feature to work since xuid requires online verification of the user account.

There are three valid player permissions (see Player Permissions for details):

The operator permission allows players full access to commands, and in addition to everything member could do.
The member permission allows players to modify and interact with the world and entities, but unable to execute commands.
The visitor permission restricts players to only view or observe the world, unable to modify or interact with it.
Commands such as /permission reload reload the permission list while running in the server, and /permission list lists players' permissions.


=== Disconnect messages ===
Disconnect messages are texts that are displayed when an operator kicks the player or the player has issues connecting to the server.


==== Java Edition ====
Server or client errors

End Of Stream (Client message)  The server has stopped sending data to the client.
Internal Server Error:java.net.Minecraft (...)  The server is sending unknown information to the client. If the server is modded, this usually happens when a client with an outdated mod tries to join the server with the updated mod.
Timed Out  The client has lost connection to the server, likely due to disconnecting from the internet or having Minecraft features blocked by a firewall.
Internal exception: java.io.IOException: Received string length longer than the maximum allowed <number>  A chat message that the client sent to the server exceeded the maximum character limit (> 256).
Internal Server Error  The server generated an exception when handling the client's request.
Illegal characters in chat  The client was denied sending certain characters, such as the "" section symbol.
Kicked for spamming (disconnect.spam)  The client is sending chat messages too quickly.
Read timed out  The server can't find the client's connection. This usually happens when the client has a slow Internet connection.
Bad login  The client is running in offline mode and can't connect to an authenticated server.
Out of memory!  This happens when the client or server cannot assign more memory to the game. This can be checked on the debug screen. It also happens if one traveled past X/Z: 34,359,738,368 in Beta 1.7.3 or lower (see Far Lands).
Flying is not enabled on this server  The client tried to fly for longer than 5 seconds in Survival or Adventure mode, usually enabled by mods.
Attempting to attack an invalid entity  This happens when the client tries to hit either themselves, or an entity that can't normally be attacked (e.g. arrow, egg, ender pearl, trident). This is usually possible through mods.
Illegal stance  This happens when the client's position is extremely high on the sky or low on the void.
Illegal position  The client is beyond X/Z: 30,000,000 (or 32,000,000 in 1.6.4 and lower).
Informational

Disconnected  The player disconnected by using the disconnect button in the pause menu.
You logged in from another location  Another client has logged in to the server the player is playing on with the player's username.
Outdated client (Please use <version>)  The server is running a more recent version of Minecraft than the client.
Outdated server (I'm still on <version>)  The client is running a more recent version of Minecraft than the server.
You have been idle for too long!  The client was idle for a longer time than allowed.
Server closed.  The server has been shut down either by closing out of the "Minecraft server" window/pressing Alt + F4, or using the /stop command.
Operator actions

You are banned from this server (during gameplay) or You are banned from this server. Reason: <reason>. Your ban will be removed on <date> on <time>. (when joined through server list)  The client's Minecraft account is banned and remains banned until pardoned by an admin, or automatically by set duration.
You have been IP banned from this server (during gameplay) or Your IP address is banned from this server. Reason: <reason>. Your ban will be removed on <date> on <time>. (when joined through server list)  The client's IP has been banned.
Kicked by an operator.  The client has been disconnected using the /kick command. This message appears when no custom message is entered, otherwise, the custom message is written directly on the disconnect screen.


==== Bedrock Edition ====


== History ==


== Issues ==
Issues relating to "Server" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.


== See also ==
Commands  commonly used in servers to manage configurations and others.


== References ==


== External links ==
Minecraft server on Wikipedia.
The official server listing for Minecraft provided by GameSafer.


== Navigation ==