Minecraft has several social features for connecting people with aspects from the game. Using the Xbox network, players can add online friends, play together, and share user data.


== Xbox network ==

When a player is signed in with a Microsoft account in-game, their Minecraft profile is synchronized with their Xbox profile. Most profile data generated in-game is visible in the Xbox profile, and vice versa. Unlike Java Edition, the player's "Minecraft account" is the same as the player's Xbox account, instead of a separate username within the Microsoft account. The game can also be played without a Microsoft account, but all online features and achievements are inaccessible.
The Xbox account determines the gamertag of the user shown in-game, which can be different from their Java Edition username. The functionality of this gamertag is identical, it is the player's name visible for other players and required for certain commands selecting the player. The gamertag can be changed one time for free on the Xbox profile.
The Xbox profile has various social features and collects data from all games, social networks, and accounts connected to the profile. All instances of Minecraft can be purchased and managed, including all Bedrock Edition and Minecraft Preview versions for platforms, Minecraft Dungeons (plus DLC), Minecraft Legends, and the Minecraft Launcher. Minecraft for Windows is available for free for members of the "family group", when their Xbox accounts are connected to an Xbox account owning Minecraft. Other features in the Xbox profile include managing the Game Pass (which includes Minecraft), managing Xbox consoles, online status, activity feed, and tracking Minecraft profile data. Using a friends system, players can search and see any Xbox profile and add players as friends or follow them, allowing access to (group) chats, voice calls, and in-game social features.
On Windows computers, the Xbox Game Bar can be opened at any time (even in-game) with  Windows + G. Acting as an overlay, certain widgets from the Xbox app can be opened, including social features, screenshot and screen recording features, and device controls. The Xbox Game Bar also controls notifications including achievements and multiplayer invites. On Xbox consoles, most features from the Xbox Game Bar can be used in-game.


=== Privacy & online safety ===
Features from the Xbox network can be customized in the Xbox privacy settings, which notably affect the player's online experience in Minecraft. Depending on the date of birth connected to the player's Microsoft account, these options may be locked and can only be edited from parental accounts. Parental accounts can also edit the privacy settings from other Xbox accounts connected to the "family group". Settings that affect Minecraft include visibility of profiles, friend and follower lists, online status, real name (if assigned), allowing friend requests/following, telemetry data, multiplayer, and profanity filtering. Most privacy settings can be changed to make them fully private, only visible for friends, or visible for anyone.


== PlayStation Network ==
On PlayStation consoles, the player's account is connected to the PlayStation Network instead of the Xbox network.[more information needed] While this offers mostly the same functionality as the Xbox network, profile data is collected separately and a different set of friends can be used. Unique features from the PlayStation Network are tracking and the rewards system of trophies instead of achievements, and the Marketplace is replaced by a "Store" connected to the PlayStation Store. The content and functionality is the same as the Marketplace, but packs are sold separately with tokens.


== Features ==

Most features from the Xbox network are visible in-game, plus some additional functionality.


=== Profile ===

On the right side of the Inbox button on the main menu and from any player button in other menus, the profile screen can be opened. A player's profile button shows the Xbox gamertag, an auto-generated skin face (if using a custom skin, this is a grayscale default skin), and the online status. The online status can be either online (with a green dot), "Away" (orange dot), or offline, and activity in Minecraft games is shown below the name, such as "Playing Minecraft Dungeons", "In the Menus", and "Playing on a Realm - Creative Mode". On the profile screen, the player's real name can also be shown. In Minecraft Preview, a render of the currently selected skin is visible on the profile page.
Achievements can be accessed from the profile screen. For each achievement, the progress, gamerscore, requirements, and rewards are shown and can be expanded. The profile tracks all achievement progress, and general progress including percentage, rewards, and gamerscore. Achievement progress can also be viewed in the Xbox profile and is stored per game, meaning that achievements can be obtained multiple times for each platform version of Minecraft. Redeemed achievement rewards are available on devices where the achievement has not been completed. The gamerscore is added to the general gamerscore in the Xbox profile, merged with gamerscore awarded from other games.
On PlayStation, the player earns trophies instead of achievements and gamerscore is not tracked, but rewards can still be obtained.
The game tracks four statistics on the Xbox profile, separated for each platform. These include the total amount of time played (in a world or server), the total amount of blocks broken, all mobs killed, and the total distance traveled.
Lists of friends and followers can be opened from the profile screen which are synchronized to the Xbox profile.


==== Screenshots ====

When signed in, the player can take screenshots in-game from the game menu or with a hotkey. Up to 100 are stored locally on the device and are not synchronized with the Xbox profile, but they are stored separately for each signed in player and can only be viewed from the profile screen. In the screenshot gallery, all screenshots can be managed and viewed, shared externally, uploaded to Realms Stories, or set it as a world thumbnail.
Up to 5 screenshots can be added to the showcase gallery, and one can be selected as featured screenshot. These screenshots are uploaded to the Xbox profile and visible for anyone with access to the profile, both in Minecraft and the Xbox app. The featured screenshot shows on the left side of the profile page, which defaults to a set of internal screenshots.


==== Other players ====

Depending on the privacy settings, the profile page is (partially) visible for any other user in-game and in the Xbox app, and the player can view profiles from any other player using the player search feature or social drawer. For profiles of other players, the showcase gallery and featured screenshot can be seen, the gamerscore and achievement progress (but not individual achievements), the friends list, and statistics. The statistics can be compared to the player's own statistics, represented by blue and orange bars depicting the distribution of progress.


=== Friends ===

The Social drawer, accessible from the Play screen and the game menu, provides access to other players profiles and usage of the Xbox friends system. Through the "Search for players" menu, any player can be searched with their gamertag. The screen also shows recommended friends (followers, friends of friends, and previous friends), and players recently played with but not friends. It also allows to search for players using a QR code or share link containing the gamertag.
Any profile found in-game can be added as friend, which makes the player show on the social drawer and the friends list. At this point, the friend is considered added, and the player who added them shows as follower for the friend. The friend can then add the player as well to make the friendship mutual, considered friends. Friends and followers are visible in the Xbox app and for other players. Friends can be removed at any time, leaving the friend as follower if the friendship was mutual.
In the United Kingdom, players that didn't verify their age can only use the chat if all players in the world are mutual friends in the Xbox app.
Friends can be marked as favorite to pin them to the top of all friend lists. Favorite friends show a heart-shaped online status icon. A player can be removed from favorites at any time.
Players can be blocked or muted. Blocking a player removes them from both the friends list and followers list and prevents them from appearing on any social feature again. Muting makes the player unable to join multiplayer worlds or send invites through the social network. Both actions can be undone from the profile screen.


=== Multiplayer ===
Through the social network, players can join each other's multiplayer worlds. When players are mutual friends and not muted, all worlds with multiplayer enabled for friends in the edit world screen show as multiplayer worlds on the Play screen. A player can also be joined in the social drawer or from their profile screen. Multiplayer can be extended to friends of friends, which enables the option for joining a game from a player's profile in a friend's friends list.
A mutual friend's game can also be joined when they are playing in a server they have access to[verify] or Realm. The latter requires access to the Realm, and also shows on the worlds tab of the Play screen.
In a world, Realm, or featured server, friends can be invited to join, where the friendship does not need to be mutual. This will send a notification from the Xbox app, and allows the player to directly join the world through the notificationh. Multiplayer game can be limited to invited players only. On a Realm, only members can be invited. The owner of the Realm can invite (non-mutual) friends at any time to the Realm, which will send an invite message to the player's Inbox.
While in a world, active players can be found and managed in the social drawer in the pause menu. The host can change player permissions, or kick the player. Players on Realms can also be banned, to prevent them from re-joining using invite links.

Members of a Realm server have access to Realms Stories, which allows players to view activity data, members, and story posts. Screenshots can be uploaded to Realms Stories, which is connected to a "Club" within the Xbox network, making all uploaded screenshots available for all members in the Xbox profile.
Other features from multiplayer games, including multiplayer settings, the chat, and other interactions are managed on the multiplayer world or server outside the social features.


=== Parties ===
 

Parties are groups of online players that can automatically join any world the leader is in, and stay connected in the menus.

A player can create a party from the Party tab in the Social drawer.
This allows to set the party's privacy between "Open" and "Invite only".
Open parties can be joined by followed friends of the leader, not followers. This appears in the "Joinable parties" section in the Party tab for friends, where they can join the party at any time.
Invite only parties can only be joined through invites.
From the Create party screen, the party tab, and other player's profile options, players can be invited to the party by the leader. Unlike game invites, this does not show a notification outside of the game.
An invite is shown in the Party tab, where the player can join or decline it.
Invites can always be resent.
This right can be extended to all members in the Party settings.
Players may restrict receiving invites to mutual friends only.
Party invites from blocked players will not show. Muting players does not affect parties.
Inviting players through the "Invite to play" button in the game menu has an option to send a party invite along with the game invite.
If a player gets invited to a party, a toast notification appears allowing to open the party tab with Open Notification/Open, and a batch notification appears on the party tab.
When the leader joins a world with multiplayer enabled, all members will receive a toast notification and join that world in 5 seconds. This can be declined with Open Notification/Decline. 
After declining or leaving that world, the party's world can be joined at any other time from the party tab.
Party members cannot join the world if the world's multiplayer settings do not allow this, e.g. they are not friends or friends of friends from the host.
A warning shows listing all party members that cannot join the world.
When a party is in a world not hosted by the leader and the leader leaves, the party will attempt to move to the main menu, which can be declined with Open Notification/Decline.
After declining or while in another world, members can also "join" the main menu.
Parties can move to Realms, but only the members with access to the Realm will move with the party.
Parties cannot move to LAN worlds or featured servers  the leader will simply join on its own after a warning.
Parties can only move to external servers if they support parties. Members on console versions or without access to the server will not join.
Party members cannot move to a world as soon as the maximum amount of players is reached.
If the leader is in a world the player does not have access to, it will attempt to move to the main menu.
The leader can kick members from the party.
Players are not kicked from the world if they are kicked from the party.
The leader can also ban players from the party, which makes them unable to join this party again, even through invites.
The leader can transfer leadership to other members.
Which player created the party is not stored and the initial leader loses all rights. The new leader will receive all these rights, and some privacy settings may change.
Both leaders and members can always leave the party.
If a leader leaves the party, the leadership will be transferred to the first member that joined.
Players are not kicked from the party's world if they leave, but they may no longer have access to new worlds the party enters.
Players can only re-join if they are invited again or if it is an open party where they have access to.
Toast notifications appear if the leadership changes or players join/leave the party.
A player can only be member of one party at a time.
Invites and available parties are still shown in the party tab if inside a party, but attempting to join throws a warning that the player will leave the current party.
When in a party, the "Social" button shows the player icons of the first four members in the party.
The online status icon is colored blue for players in the same party.
In the social drawer, a second icon is shown for the party leader.
A party can have up to 15 members.
Adding new players or attempting to join a full party results in a warning message.
Parties are hosted on the Xbox network with a unique party ID. Bedrock Dedicated Server tracks the party IDs from joining players and what role they have in the party.


==== Chat ====
When member of a party, the social drawer shows a chat on the left of the screen. This functions similarly to but separately from the gameplay chat and allows to send and view messages for all members of the party, whether they are in the same world, different worlds, or even in the menu screens. Each message also shows the player's profile icon and their name in blue. There are informational messages for players joining or leaving the party, and leadership changes.
After receiving a message while not in the chat, a batch notification shows on the social button and party chat button, and a notification sound plays. The chat can be closed or re-opened with a button on the bottom-left.
Mentioning with @, formatting codes, and commands are not available.


=== Reporting ===

Players can be reported to Mojang Studios staff in their profile screen. Additionally, the options for a screenshot in a player's showcase gallery and a post in Realms Stories allow to report content. For the latter, the report will be sent to Xbox Enforcement instead of Mojang Studios.


== History ==


== Gallery ==


=== Default featured screenshots ===


=== Promotional images ===


=== Screenshots ===


==== Historical screenshots ====


== Issues ==
Issues relating to "Social", "Party", "Friends", or "Profile" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.


== See also ==
Server
Realms Stories
Chat
Emote
Ore UI


== Navigation ==