The Traveling Trader is a free Marketplace map developed by Jigarbov Productions that promotes the Village & Pillage update. The map tells the story of a trader, who is gifted with the ability to speak with villagers and help defeat the illagers.


== Summary ==


=== Info Room ===

The map opens inside a black void, represented by a vignette of a village surrounded by black concrete, with a house containing Billager, ahead of his proper introduction. The player spawns on a light weighted pressure plate, with a jungle sign pointing toward Billager, giving a tutorial for trading. Beyond that, there is a chest containing bread, steaks, baked potatoes, and rotten flesh, and a pen with a single white sheep present. When the player is ready to begin the map, they have to press a stone button below a portrait of the map's key art.


=== Campground ===

The player awakens inside a campsite, with a single wandering trader present. When trying to walk away from the camp, the wandering trader is described as "staring at you... gesturing you toward the nearby tent..." Inside the tent is a trapped chest, which the wandering trader also points toward, with "green piercing eyes." Clicking on the chest transports the player back into the black void, this time before an ominous, enormous replica of a chest. 

Entering the chest, the player discovers a haunting sight. Inside the chest are several oversized potions, an apple, and a diamond sword. Lanterns suddenly shatter as the player walks inside, before energy emits from a lectern and lightning strikes, bringing forth the head of the "Villager Spirit." The head slowly falls on top of the lectern, replicating the silhouette of a villager, as it explains the player has been chosen to "become The Traveling Trader" and is given the ability to speak with villagers. As it finishes its speech, the head leaves the lectern and flies toward the player, blinding them as they return to their tent.
Now daytime, the player is tasked with meeting Billager. The trapped chest now has an inventory, consisting of a full set of leather armor, a full stack of torches, ten filled maps, twenty-nine baked potatoes, a stone sword, a stone pickaxe, twenty-two steaks, and a book written by Jigarbov, labeled The Traveling Trader.

Near the campsite is a desert pyramid with stairs leading to it and two misoriented chests. Also not far from the camp is a fallen tree, where the player meets a cleric, who says "you're not the wandering trader..." but seems to think the player can help. He introduces himself as "Billager... the villager... don't laugh!" Being stressed, he decides to lead the player into the plains village.


=== Plains Village ===

Billager stands beside a masonry, introducing a stonemason villager by the name of Sevillager, who is known for an incredible hunger. Sevillager asks to trade fish for a grindstone. Billager then leads the player to "the old blacksmiths," where Jillager is trying to move in and longs to be a weaponsmith, dismissing the anvil there instead. Back outside, Billager points to the right, down a hill, where the fisherman Dillinger lives. They are described as "always complain' about something." Billager then explains that the wandering trader usually comes by, but isn't here this time and asks for the player to help the village instead. Billager adds he can be found at the temple if needed.

In order to trade with Sevillager, the player must obtain cod, and in order to trade with Dillinger to get cod, the player needs an emerald. Several can be found throughout the village, the first from the path to the campground being in a stable, which also contain another set of leather armor, a stone sword, 14 torches, 15 steak, and a saddle. Another nearby chest is a small chest with a yellow bed, containing a book, 12 bread, and 11 potatoes. Another option is the forge, which has two oak saplings, a leather helmet, an iron helmet, two iron ingots, seven coal, and a block of coal. Farther from the front is another small house, on top of the hill next to Dillinger's house and up from the tree in the center of town. This chest can be identified from its nine apples, six potatoes, and nine bread. Another option is a two level house with a lectern artificially placed inside, containing two emeralds, two oak saplings, eight bread, seven apples, two potatoes, and a dandelion. The farthest source of emeralds is right in front of Billager's temple, which has three emeralds, five potatoes, four bread, and one oak sapling.
After paying for the fish from Dillinger, Sevillager needs two cod to give the grindstone. From there the player can approach Jillager, who takes the grindstone immediately without a trade and replace the anvil, becoming a weaponsmith. From there the player is directed to Billager's temple at the top of the village, where he requests the player bring him ten bread and five emeralds, explaining they're a village tax. In return, Billager gives his "special button," actually just a stone button. Putting it down on a block of obsidian reveals a secret chest, which contains five emeralds and ten maps to the savanna village. Before the player leaves, there are two additional chests hidden at the top of the temple, containing four emeralds, seven apples, two oak saplings, five potatoes, and two bread.


=== Savanna Village ===

Entering the savanna, the player meets Willager, who recognizes the player as "[not] a wandering trader? A traveling trader perhaps?" Explaining that they have a big problem, Willager leads the player into the village, where it's established that the town was raided by pillagers. A ravager destroyed the town's well. Like in the plains village, there are  villagers with their own problems that Willager thinks could help them come up with a plan.
The easiest to interact with, Demillager the fletcher, immediately remembers to go over to the well's remains upon being approached. To Demillager's right is Samager, who has lost their three pigs and asks to lead them back to the pen, recommending Phillager's leads. Phillager seems eager to help, but needs a new cauldron; theirs has a crack. Going over to Lillager, they request string for the cauldron. Going back to Demillager, they can give ten string for one emerald, while Lillager needs six. From there Phillager agrees to trade the cauldron for five leads, which can be used to rescue Samager's pigs.

The villagers' problems fixed and everyone reminded, Willager gets to the point, asking Lillager to assess the damage to the well. Lillager explains that they need ten acacia logs to repair the wooden fixtures, which Demillager used the last of on arrows to defend against the raid. Asking for help once again, Willager suggests collecting ten logs and dropping them into a hopper. Supplying the logs lets the villagers dynamically rebuild the well, and as a reward Willager gives the player a map to a desert village, telling them to say hi to a character called McGyllager for them.


=== Desert Village ===

Crossing another bridge, the player swiftly meets McGyllager, who initially says "you don't look like a fighter... Well, looks can be deceiving." In the village, it becomes clear why they need a fighter: the town fell victim to an even worse raid than the savanna village's, many buildings being completely destroyed, others covered by traps. Several of both even blend into their surroundings, as if lost to time. Crossing over another bridge to a mostly preserved village, McGyllager asks for help fortifying the village, and what’s on the other side of the bridge is what’s left on the village.

McGyllager walks over to an array of pressure plate mines and ask for cacti to finish the invention. Surrounding the field are birch signs for added security, with iron golems on leashes stationed right next to them. Trading five cacti gives the player three pressure plates, and then McGyllager leads the player to another trap, a tripwire. McGyllager instructs the player to place down string to finish the trap, recommending they get it from spiders or the previous villages. From there the two advance to a series of automated iron golem kits, which still require pumpkins. McGyllager says that another villager named Zyllager has some pumpkins, who is back in the safe zone.
Zyllager is a shepherd who gives the player several pumpkins for white wool, something they acknowledge is random. For three emeralds, Zyllager can provide shears to avoid killing the sheep. After collecting three wool and trading it plus the shears for pumpkins, McGyllager instructs the player to place each in a dispenser. All that's left to activate the golems is a tripwire hook, and McGyllager advises to look for an iron ingot to make it. Getting one requires backtracking to the savanna village and trading sweet berries with Lillager. After crafting/trading the hook, McGyllager requests that the player place some extra sweet berry bushes, explaining how they're placed.
The traps finalized, McGyllager finally lets the player into a large building, locked by iron doors. Inside, the player receives one final map, this time leading to the base of operations of the pillagers.


=== Pillager stronghold ===

On the outskirts of the Desert Village lie an expansive structure, surrounded by pillager outposts filled with many illagers. Approaching from the base in the desert, the player notices a pillager spawner and a nearby chest. On the opposite side of the area is a large pen, holding a ravager and ravager spawner. Cages similar to regular outpost cages litter the ground, some containing iron golems while others hold illagers. Entering the stronghold itself, players overhear a villager named Fred, begging for help from a cage below the ground. Freeing Fred requires pressing four buttons on the floor, marked with red, light blue, magenta, and lime concrete. To raise the cage, the player must search out a combination, explained in a book guarded by an evoker, "Cell Combo" by Patty Pillager.

The ranks in question are explained by a nearby table; Stevoker (magenta) came first, Kathindicator (red) was second, Pillagerald (lime) was third, and Pillagary (light blue) was fourth. Inputting the combination frees Fred, who tells the player to keep up while running as fast as possible back to the desert. After regrouping with McGyllager, Fred asks if the player killed any raid captains along the way, saying they are a bad omen. From there, the final challenge of the map is a raid, in its entirety. Upon completing that, the player must return to Fred and McGyllager, who declare the player the hero of the village. However, they then notice the appearance of the wandering trader, who they say has a reward: another trapped chest.
As expected, the chest returns the player to the domain of the Villager Spirit, the encounter playing out near identically to the spirit's introduction. At that point, the player returns to the campsite, now able to use the world as a regular survival experience, and the credits roll.
If the player return to the chest in the desert village, he will find another book writen by Patty Pillager named "Pillager Poetry" and an explorer map named "Pillager's Home" leading to a woodland mansion.

The mansion is located at x:21009 y:70 z:-9598 and is a regular mansion.
There is a plains village in the top left corner of the map.


== Skins ==


== Quotes ==


=== External ===


=== Internal ===


== Videos ==


== History ==


== Trivia ==
If inspected using creative mode, spectator mode, or after the completion of the story, several set pieces and command blocks can be found underneath the areas. Several of these areas are walled off using glowing obsidian.
As of May 2019, the Traveling Trader was the "fastest downloaded map" of Jigarbov Productions, being downloaded over 100,000 times on the first day.
Although resembling vanilla villages faithfully, the villages featured in the map were all constructed manually.
The world template is locked in version 1.13.0, the oldest version available to lock world templates in, making any newer feature unavailable.


== Gallery ==


=== Official artwork ===


=== Promotional images ===


=== Screenshots ===


== See also ==
Abstraction: Minecon Earth, another map by Jigarbov Productions
Poisonous Potato Add-On, another Marketplace project by Jigarbov Productions
Tetris Add-On, another Marketplace project by Jigarbov Productions
Timeless Trails, a map with a similar premise used to promote Trails & Tales


== References ==


== Navigation ==