The Ender Cave is the fifth episode of Minecraft Mini-Series.


== Summary ==
On Scatter Island, multiple endermen are seen carrying blocks from place to place and teleporting in front of Zed, startling him. CommuniKate then introduces the audience to the island and its endermen, when Zed gets startled again by an enderman.
In the shelter that the participants built, Durango complains that no one other than endermen live on the island. Quinn then asks about why Mo blew herself up when the participants left Eerie Island. Sacha protests as an answer and tells Quinn that Mo did very little in her base. Rudi answers that Mo actually built a bunch of tunnels beyond her small base, and Quinn assumed that Mo used the tunnels to escape the explosion. Toby then hears a knock and thinks that an enderman is coming, only for it to be CommuniKate and Zed calling the participants to visit the Ender Cave.
In the cave, Zed distributes diamond swords for the participants as they enter. CommuniKate then cites the rules of the challenge consisting of defeating endermen in the cave and gathering as many ender pearls as they can to fill their dedicated hoppers with. Quinn complains to CommuniKate about why they ever end up in such a dangerous challenge. Zed explains that she promises lots of food for the winner, holding a cooked chicken and a pumpkin pie which Durango tries to take.
Later, the teams were placed each on top of a pillar. The pillars immediately lower as the challenge begins. However, the participants are annoyed by the endermen's teleportation abilities. Sacha tries to hit one, but it immediately teleported away. Quinn tries to do the same, but the enderman sneaks up to her and hits her. Toby and River are frightened by an enderman, and Durango immediately intervenes to protect them. He thought he killed the enderman, while it in fact simply teleported away as it reappears behind him and hits him. Later, Quinn tries to attack an enderman but fails because of it teleporting away. Frightened, Toby feels that endermen are so sneaky that even winking will put anyone in danger. In front of him and River, Quinn comes out and confronts an enderman.
In a scene where Sacha fights an enderman again, she manages to kill it, gaining an ender pearl. Then, Quinn and Durango do the same, and every team fills their hopper with ender pearls. Because of this, Team Tundra hoped that they will earn five points from their efforts. In another scene where Quinn manages to kill another enderman, Durango rushes to steal the dropped ender pearl from her. However, he falls down and accidentally throws the pearl in the center of a ring of endermen, teleporting him there. After angering the endermen, he gets kicked out as well as Quinn, both taking large damage. Seeing this, Toby gets the idea that ender pearls can be thrown to teleport whoever threw it, whispering a plan to Quinn. She then takes Toby's sword and throws an ender pearl at the ring of endermen, performing a whirlwind attack and killing the entire ring. Then, she does the same to another ring, gathers the ender pearls and helps Team Stone Beach win.
Thinking this win is unfair, Durango angrily throws his ender pearl to a wall, teleporting himself there. However, to CommuniKate, the challenge is not over and Team Stone Beach must be challenged with a bigger threat. She pulls a lever to cause a wall of stone to collapse, revealing The Enderall who immediately swallows an enderman, scaring the participants. Quinn complains to CommuniKate that her team already won, but the latter answered that only she can announce the winner, and if any member of Team Stone Beach died, she will distribute the food to the surviving teams. During an interview with Sacha, River, and Rudi, the three complain about CommuniKate's plan.
As the challenge started, The Enderall starts teleporting from place to place, then stopping to try to absorb Quinn and Toby, who are running away. Zed approaches The Enderall as it absorbs, but CommuniKate drags him to safety. Back to Team Stone Beach, Quinn asks if Toby still has the ladders to climb up a ledge on the wall to safety, which they did. Knowing it cannot reach them, The Enderall starts absorbing air and some ladders, but the team members are holding tight. After it realized it failed, it started exhaling a gust of wind that sends Toby and his glasses falling. Unable to see properly, he struggles to get his glasses back, and The Enderall stalkd him. Quinn realizes that it has a weak spot on its back, and stabs it there, gathering many ender pearls.
When Team Stone Beach won, CommuniKate gives six points to them, putting them on the lead. She also gives them the promised feast, which Rudi gets jealous of. The team didn't mind sharing some food with him and the other participants, and while trying to share with Durango, he first thought it is a trick but later starts eating. All the participants start to eat, much to CommuniKate's dismay. Then, she bids goodbye to the audience and asks them if they are still watching. In the background, Mo is seen peeking out of a stone tunnel she dug.


== Characters ==


== Quotes ==


=== External ===


=== Internal ===


=== Transcript ===


== Videos ==


== Credits ==


== Trivia ==


=== Errors ===
The trees on Scatter Island resemble spruce trees, but they are made of oak-themed blocks.
In the scene where Durango accidentally teleported to a ring of endermen, the angry enderman emitted its death sound when screaming.
In the scene where the ring of endermen kicked Durango, the fall damage he and Quinn took is inconsistent with their health bar, as their health points only fell after a short delay.


== Gallery ==


== Navigation ==