Tiny Agnes is a miniaturized doppelgänger of Agnes Larsson, who typically appeared during Community Votes. Although similar in personality and appearance to her namesake, Tiny Agnes was shown consistently to be a separate entity, spending almost all of her time with Tiny Jens.


== Appearance ==
Tiny Agnes closely follows her inspiration, but with more a more cartoonish appearance. Her hair is blonde in a ponytail, with visible eyelashes and blue eyes. Her clothes are a white T-shirt and jeans with red shoes, however her arms are rendered as nub blocks, while her legs are about as tall as her torso.
Beginning with Minecraft Live 2020, Tiny Agnes would begin wearing different outfits, such as winterwear consisting of purple earmuffs, a white coat, and red gloves or mittens. While snorkeling, she and Tiny Jens would wear near identical outfits, with a snorkel, swimsuit, and flippers. The only difference is hers were accented purple, while his were chartreuse.
In Eerie Mojang Office Party, she's rendered more in-line with typical Minecraft characters, with proportionate proportions. Her head closely resembles her "Tiny" appearance, but now grown, with the plain clothes taking up far more space.


== Personality ==
Tiny Agnes is commonly paired with Tiny Jens, going on adventures to discover new features that "want to join Minecraft." During these expeditions, she will typically lead the conversation, progressing further than Tiny Jens and acting more fearless.


== Powers and abilities ==
During the Biome Chooser informal videos, Tiny Agnes was depicted teleporting into a forest beside what appeared to be a portal. In the Biome Vote videos, she was also shown both falling into powder snow and being able to stand on top fine, without any additional leather boots. During the video demonstrating the iceologer, she would display what appeared to be martial arts, instinctively avoiding the ice chunk and pulling out a crossbow.
According to a video disclaimer, Tiny Agnes received extensive training for climbing ladders and "water leaping."


== Biography ==


=== Community Votes ===
During the lead up to MINECON Earth 2018, Tiny Jens and Agnes embarked on a mission to promote the biomes players could vote for during the event. Beginning in a desert, Tiny Agnes voiced the opinion that they needed palm trees, "and some friendly guys to keep things interesting." She corrected Jens when he mistook meerkats for casts, embarrassing to the extent that he ran away to the taiga in a panic. Upon arriving in the taiga, Tiny Agnes ate a sweet berry and enjoyed it, before a skulk of foxes appeared, frightening her. When asked for reassurance they wouldn't be hostile, Tiny Jens remarked that they "hadn't decided." The final destination was the savanna, where she expressed the opinion that baobabs were "the best trees," before shifting her attention to the ostrich.
The following year, Tiny Agnes appeared in a badlands biome, and encountered vultures. After expressing concerns that "the loot" would despawn. Moving on into a swamp, Tiny Agnes became grossed out and intimidated by a frog, fleeing from it rather awkwardly. Progressing up into the mountains, Tiny Agnes would fall into powder snow, and then chase after a goat. The year after shifted to the Mob Vote, where Tiny Agnes found mooblooms very affectionate, and acted oblivious to Tiny Jens' insecurities. She would get comeuppance of sorts on a return trip to the mountain, freezing cold and nearly getting crushed by an iceologer. While on the mountain, the two would apparently a spend a night on top, In a deep warm ocean, Agnes remarked she wished oceans were "glowier," a problem solved by the introduction of glow squids.
Following the glow squid's victory, 2022 would continue with another mob vote. This time, Tiny Jens and Agnes began trekking through a birch forest on their way to the "Minecraft Live Studio," not knowing which mobs were selected. In order to check, Tiny Jens pulled out a cell phone, and contacted Tiny Vu, who conveniently did know the candidates. However, Agnes ended up falling into a cave, leaving Jens to try and locate her. As it turned out, she had fallen into a laboratory, where she encountered a glare hiding behind a crate. Digging hole in the ground, she would try to reach out to Jens, leading him down into the underground. In order to escape, the two built a copper golem, who activated an escape tunnel. Back on the surface, the two rushed to the studio, Agnes disappointed to discover Jens had given their final cookie to an allay.
The final Mob Vote began on a boat, by Jens' insistence. Despite tension over his plan and accusations of lying about a shortcut, Agnes elected to remain positive, insisting on an "adventure" as opposed to "desperation." Soon, Vu identified a mob on a beach, Agnes proposing it could somehow help them get back on track. Nevertheless, Vu swam over to the biome to investigate, the other two leaving him behind as they reached a savanna island. Confronting Tiny Jens on his supposed shortcut, Agnes unwittingly baits him into riding a boat, on land, for an extended period of time. Now alone, Tiny Agnes pushed forward into the night. After accidentally dropping a lantern into the sea, she discovered penguins, who agreed to help speed up her ship.
The forces reconverged in a cherry grove, Vu and Agnes finally finding the apparent shortcut on a hanging sign. The two exchange notes, Agnes telling about her discovery of penguins, while Tiny Vu discusses crabs. Meanwhile, Tiny Jens was still rowing through the savanna, following behind them with an armadillo.


=== Post-Community Votes ===
In 2026, Tiny Agnes conspired with Tiny Vu to takeover Minecraft Monthly, under the impression she would get to host the show. When confronted, Vu struggled to think of a response, waking up his big counterpart, who was dreaming of that exact scenario, apparently multiple times. Later in the show, she would complete her conquest of the show while the real Agnes was scheduled for an interview, revealing the name of the Tiny Takeover game drop. As she gets to praise the name, Vu regained control of the show, and signed off for the hour.


== Quotes ==


== History ==


=== Videos and streams ===

MINECON Earth 2018
Biome Chooser - Announcement Trailer
Biome Chooser - Desert
Biome Chooser - Taiga
Biome Chooser - Savanna
Biome Chooser - Which Biome Should We Update Next?
Ten Things You Probably Didn't Know About Minecraft
Blocks
The End
2020 Special
2022 Special
MINECON Live 2019
Biome Vote - Announcement Trailer
Biome Vote - Badlands
Biome Vote - Swamp
Biome Vote - Mountains
Biome Vote - Which Will be Updated Next?
How We Make Minecraft
Adding a New Mob
Crafting a Crafting System
Lookin' Good
The Sounds of Minecraft
Caves, Cliffs & Other Updates
Ending Minecraft
Minecraft Live 2020
Minecraft Live: Introducing New Mobs!
Minecraft Live: Vote for the Moobloom!
Minecraft Live: Vote for the Iceologer!
Minecraft Live: Vote for the Glow Squid!
Minecraft Live: Vote for the Next New Mob!
The Secrets of Minecraft
The Allay
How We Invented Frogs
Minecraft Live 2021
Minecraft Live 2021: Introducing new mobs!
Minecraft Live 2021: Vote for the glare!
Minecraft Live 2021: Vote for the next new mob!
Minecraft Live 2022
Minecraft Live 2022: The Mob Vote is Back!
Minecraft Live 2022: Vote for the Sniffer!
Minecraft Live 2022: Vote for the Rascal!
Minecraft Live 2022: Vote for the Tuff Golem!
Minecraft Live 2022: Which Mob Gets Your Vote?
Minecraft Live 2023
Minecraft Live 2023: Which mob will you vote for?
Minecraft Live 2023: Vote for the crab!
Minecraft Live 2023: Vote for the armadillo!
Minecraft Live 2023: Vote for the penguin!
Minecraft Live 2023: The countdown is on!
ARE YOU VOTING FOR THE PENGUIN?
Minecraft LIVE – March 2025
En route to #MinecraftLIVE!
Minecraft Monthly
REVEALING NEXT GAME DROP NAME!


=== Bedrock Edition ===


== Trivia ==
Despite later canon establishing that the Tinies hail from the Adventure Isles, in the Biome Chooser video for taigas, Tiny Agnes insinuates she is Swedish, like Giant Agnes. This could imply she is an immigrant.
Although Tiny Agnes voiced the opinion that glow squids would "make oceans glowier," her real self seemed to prefer them in aquifers at the end of Minecraft Live 2020.


== Gallery ==


=== Sprites ===


=== Screenshots ===


== References ==


== Navigation ==