Vibrant Visuals is a graphics mode that aims to improve the visual looks of Minecraft by adding directional lighting, physically based textures, pixel-aligned shadows, atmospheric sky, environmental effects, and various other visual features based on photorealism. It is built with the RenderDragon engine around a physically based rendering pipeline used for deferred lighting and ray tracing. It runs locally on the player's device, and can be enabled in the player's settings rather than world specific settings.
Most configurations and textures can be customized using resource packs, and various tagged Marketplace add-ons make use of custom Vibrant Visuals packs.
Vibrant Visuals affects only the graphical appearance of Minecraft; it does not affect gameplay. However, enabling Vibrant Visuals on lower-end devices (especially with high render distance and higher graphics settings) can decrease game performance significantly, which can affect the game experience.


== Features ==
Vibrant Visuals moves most visual shading to the deferred lighting passes on different resolutions, except water and transparencies handled by forward shading. The game calculates surface normals and depth to shade the albedo color image, for a similar result to ambient occlusion in classic graphics. It also calculates the image's luminance, which is affected by various lighting mechanics.


=== Physically based rendering ===

After the base rendering passes, the game applies physically based rendering (PBR), which simulates realistic lighting behaviors between different surface materials. This is achieved by creating different texture maps for every block, entity, item, and particle, which define specific characteristics of the surface material per pixel. A texture set is used to specify these texture maps for an object in a resource pack. Four maps — metalness, emissive, roughness, and subsurface scattering (collectively known as MERS) — define the material's properties. Each property in MERS is assigned to RGBA textures (four channel): red to metalness, green to emissive, blue to roughness, and alpha to subsurface.


==== Reflections ====

Object reflections are heavily affected by their metalness and roughness properties. Metallic surfaces reflect light directly and combine that reflection with their own color. Non-metallic surfaces like grass, dirt, and tree barks show more solid color and less reflection. A surface with low roughness is very smooth, resulting in sharp, mirror-like reflections, compared with high roughness that results in blurry, diffuse reflections.

The game uses screen space reflections (SSR) and image-based lighting (IBL) to create dynamic reflections which appear on these surfaces. SSR generates reflections by reusing what's already visible on the screen. They are limited by the objects and parts of the world that are currently visible in the camera's view, which can cause reflections to fade or disappear near the edges of the screen. In contrast, IBL reflections, used to reflect clouds and the sky, aren't limited by what is already displayed on the screen but often appear low resolution and distorted. They use cube maps, which are affected by environmental lighting and atmospheric scattering.
Directional light sources are reflected as specular highlights with the Cook-Torrance model, creating a single bright spot moving with the eye position. This is not limited by the current image, but always visible.
Most blocks and entities in Vibrant Visuals with high metalness only reflect light sources and do not completely mirror areas. Water surfaces are fully reflective and properly mirror the area surrounding them, including the fading by fog. The variety of metalness and roughness in texture maps makes nearby reflections appear pixelated. The indirect specular reflection quality can be configured under the video settings, which affects their resolution and distance at which they appear.


==== Surface glows ====

Pixels can appear to glow in the dark environment through the emissive texture map. This map defines which parts of a texture should be self-illuminated. It uses the green color channel in the MERS texture; areas of the map that are solid green will glow at full intensity, with different shades of the color affecting their intensity, while black areas will be unaffected by the emissive property. Emissive surfaces do not cast light onto surrounding blocks or entities, and therefore do not cast proper shadows. However, their glow remains visible even in complete darkness, making them appear bright and distinct. They also produce a light bloom effect, which makes their color bleed into the surrounding areas.
Some entities and blocks — like drowned, spiders, sculk, certain dropped items, and firefly particles — use emissive texture maps and produce glowing effect. This effect is often contributed by their natural block lighting (like torches and glowstone), which makes the glow appear more intense and realistic. When emissive textures are reflected, their reflections are also emissive from Cook-Torrance BRDF.


==== Subsurface scattering ====
The fourth map, subsurface scattering, simulates an effect of light shining through thin surfaces, like leaves. This effect is applied to blocks exposed to directional lighting, and blends to roughly one block deep for the strongest effects. Diffuse from directional light (see below) penetrates through the surface and will also apply to the backside of affected objects, occluded with the shadow mapping. Pixels affected by subsurface scattering can never be affected by metalness and vice versa, although they can still be smooth and create specular highlights.


=== Directional lighting and shadows ===

The primary light sources in Vibrant Visuals are global directional lights, including the sun and the moon in the Overworld, and End flashes in the End. Depending on the location of the light source in the sky, they illuminate all objects directly exposed to them with their color, using direct diffuse with Lambertian BRDF.  
The roughness texture map affects how direct diffuse colors the objects, and subsurface scattering allows it to slightly penetrate through the surface. Light also shines through glass panes and other supported transparent blocks, where it has the same effects on objects behind it.  
Directional light sources cast shadows on all objects, including held items on the HUD. The object that creates the shadow and the location of the light source affects the shape, size, and direction of the shadow. Unlike shadows in most shaders, shadows are pixelated to match the resolution of other textures and align with the pixel grid. Shadows can be created by any block that can obstruct lighting, most particles, and entities, including players. Animated objects, like animated player skins or the tentacles of a ghast, create animated shadows as well. Dropped items always create pixelated round shadows. Shadows are rendered at a lower quality at higher distances, which can be configured in the settings.  


==== End flash ====

The End flash is an effect in the End sky that is exclusive to Vibrant Visuals.​[until: BE 26.20] Flashes of directional lighting occur once every 30 seconds at random spots above the horizon. As a directional light source, End flashes illuminate the environment with a purple color and create shadow and reflection effects. Each flash lasts between 5 and 19 seconds, with fading at the beginning and the end, while also producing a sound. Flashes can be disabled in the accessibility settings.


==== Colored lighting ====

If the "Render Dragon Features for Creators" experiment is enabled in Minecraft Preview, and "point lights" are turned on in the settings, light-emitting blocks like torches emit directional light and cast dynamic shadows as well. The light is emitted from a single point at the center of a block, hence the name, and the strength is affected by the block's lighting. This light is colored, and blends additively. 
The quality of point lighting and the shadows created by point lights can be adjusted in the settings, or turned off.

In addition to point lighting, all other blocks with block lighting create static colored light. Both static colored lights and point lights tint volumetric fog and blend into the environment. The following blocks are affected by point lighting, or have unique static light colors:


==== Other light sources ====

The final stage of illuminating the image is block, ambient, and sky lighting using indirect diffuse on the surface.
Vibrant Visuals redefines the classic lighting model to realistic approaches with physically accurate values, while keeping the base light appearance from Minecraft. Block lighting simulates the classic octahedron shape with more dynamic illumination and coloring, which also allows static light coloration.
Without directional light sources, objects are lit by ambient lighting, to prevent them from rendering pitch black. Ambient lighting has a dimension-dependent strength (0.02 in the Overworld, 0.5 in the Nether, and 0.125 in the End), which illuminates any object. This makes the Nether bright even without light sources, while Overworld caves are much darker.
Overworld sky exposure affects gameplay with the internal light level. To visualize this effect, Vibrant Visuals applies an additional global illumination to objects with higher sky light levels, even in shadows without directional light, making them blend in more with bright areas. In lower sky light levels, diffuse by directional lighting has a stronger contrast with the shadows. When the sky light level is 0, global directional lighting is disabled entirely.
Night Vision heavily increases ambient light during nighttime, making caves appear fully bright and shadows no darker than the environment at night. It does not change fog or brightness on the surface of the Overworld like in other graphics modes.
When the player has Blindness or Darkness, global directional lighting is deactivated and the scene appears as in a cave. Under fog effects other than Overworld atmospherics, Blindness and Darkness use the same colors as without the effect, instead of black.


=== Environmental effects ===
Each biome and dimension has unique effects for lighting and color that greatly affect the scene. Biome-dependent effects include atmospherics, color grading, volumetric fog, and lighting (excluding point lights). In transitions between biomes, the game automatically blends the effects.


==== Atmospherics ====
The sky color of a biome in Vibrant Visuals is defined at the horizon and the zenith using enhanced distance fog, which also fades distant objects. When these colors are different, the sky will blend these colors between the horizon and the zenith. For example, deserts and badlands have a light orange/green sky and fog color, snowy biomes have a light blue or white color, and pale gardens have a gray color. The color and intensity of sunlight and moonlight are affected by the biome as well, which affects directional specular highlights and the illumination of all objects hit by light sources.
The atmosphere is affected by rayleigh scattering which illuminates the sky colors. There is also mie scattering shaped around the sun near the horizon, creating an additional section of the sky tinted and illuminated by a mix of sunlight and atmosphere colors.

Vibrant Visuals enhances fog effects with dynamic volumetric fog, creating a tinted haze around directional light sources. As directional lighting passes through volumetric fog, it gets scattered and absorbed, fading or even blocking the view. It appears in the air exposed to directional lighting; when the camera is inside the effects surround the camera, looking at the light source shows more illumination; when the camera is outside, the effects are visible as light rays falling between objects such as blocks and entities. Certain biomes, like swamps and pale gardens, have denser volumetric fog effects with unique strengths depending on the lighting.  
With the Henyey-Greenstein phase function, volumetric fog can create light shafts for scattering in the air. When the camera is inside volumetric fog, directional lighting scatters into variable light shafts in diffuse directions, which depends on the biome. Volumetric fog can be disabled in the settings, and the quality of light shafts and distance fading can be adjusted. 


===== Daylight cycle =====

All atmospheric effects gradually change during the time of day, for example, mie scattering effects only apply during sunrise or sunset, and the sky, sun, and moon colors are constantly changing. The color of sunlight is darker orange and more dimly lit at sunrise and sunset, gradually increasing in brightness and turning yellow/white at noon. Moonlight is light gray/blue with a much lower illuminance.
At night, the sky color is black at zenith and blue at horizon, appearing almost entirely black due to the dim moonlight and weakened rayleigh scattering. The rising sun illuminates this while the horizon changes from purple, to pink, to bright orange, and eventually gray with high illumination, in contrast to a deep blue sky. Sunset applies these graphics in reverse, but instead of pink, the horizon turns brown for a while.
The colored horizon appears lower in the sky during the night, and gradually higher at daytime. Mie scattering at sunrise and sunset combines the changing sunlight and sky colors into unique appearances for each part of the sky.
Different temperature-based color grading settings distinguish biomes with different temperatures, making especially cold biomes appear gray/blue, and warm biomes colored orange. Color grading is applied as a post-processing effect to the whole image, including blocks, light, and the sky.


===== Biome settings =====
Most biomes, including unused biomes, use default settings for fog, atmospherics, lighting, and color grading, or share a common setting with a specific climate, while some biomes have unique settings. 

Fog settings are split into default, semi-humid, and humid. Ice spikes, mushroom fields, swamps, pale gardens, dark forests, and the End have unique fog settings.
For a complete overview of these settings, see Fog § Volumetric fog.
In order from warm color temperature, color grading is split into desert, mesa, warmish, mangrove swamp, default, coolish, cold, and ice spikes.
Lush caves use warmish color grading with a higher contrast.
Mesa biomes have a lower saturation value than other biomes.
For more details about these settings, see /Configurations § Color grading.
Most biomes share their lighting settings with the default, but some specific settings differ.
Mushroom fields have dynamic purple sunlight colors, while pale gardens and ice spikes have a static light gray sunlight color.
Dark forests, ice spikes, and pale gardens have significantly lower sunlight illuminances.
Warmish biomes have a more deep blue moonlight color. Deserts increase this effect, while pale gardens have a more light gray moonlight color.
Cold and coolish biomes have slightly stronger sunlight at sunrise and sunset.
See /Configurations § Lighting for more details.
Various biomes have unique zenith colors. The final color of the sky also depends on directional light sources, fog, and color grading.
Dark forests have a slightly darker blue zenith color at daytime.
Swamps use a dull brown/green zenith color.
Mangrove swamps have a brighter blue zenith color.
Deserts use a turquoise zenith color, mesas slightly increase this effect.
Warmish biomes, deserts, and mesas have slightly brighter blue zenith colors at nighttime.
In ice spikes and mushroom fields, the daytime zenith is light gray. In pale gardens, this is dark gray.
Some biomes also have unique horizon colors at certain times of day.
Mesa biomes have a brown horizon at daytime.
Pale gardens have a slightly more gray daytime horizon. Ice spikes also lack an orange sunset/sunrise.
Mushroom fields have a very bright yellow/green horizon at daytime, bright red at sunset, dark purple at nighttime, and bright purple at sunrise.
The End sky uses unique black/dark purple atmospherics, rendered on top of the End sky texture, and a dense purple volumetric fog effect is visible during an End flash.
The sky in all Nether biomes uses the same atmospheric colors as without Vibrant Visuals to tint the fog. The effect is achieved with static atmosphere colors, illuminated by red moonlight (although the moon is invisible) and minimal rayleigh scattering, with slight differences between the biomes. The red "moonlight" also gives a red tint to the Nether roof.
See /Configurations § Atmospherics for details about all atmospheric scattering values.


==== Clouds ====

Clouds have more detail and are illuminated by directional light on the edges, making large clouds appear much darker than smaller clouds. Furthermore, clouds can block sunlight or moonlight and cast shadows on the ground. When a cloud covers the sun or moon, the sky and the environment darken and change colors. As a form of scattering, clouds are dynamically tinted by global lighting, which is unique for every biome, weather event, and the time of day.
Unlike other graphics modes, clouds are rendered past the horizon up to 128 chunks. The cloud distance can be adjusted in the Vibrant Visuals options.


==== Weather effects ====

During weather events including rainfall, snowfall, and thunderstorms, global directional light sources are hidden and the denser fog atmospherics and clouds change to the static colors from classic graphics modes. Color grading still applies, making rain and snow look unique for every biome. Bright mie scattering is still visible at the position of the sun and colored white. Without directional lighting, dynamic shadows and volumetric fog aren't visible.
Unlike in other graphics modes, atmospherics and lighting do not change in dry biomes. During thunderstorms or when a wither is nearby, sky light is heavily reduced, making the contribution of directional light more visible. This results in more unique, yellow-brown colors of the sky, clouds, and lighting, and much darker shadows, even in dry biomes. This effect is barely noticable with rainfall in dry biomes, because reduces the sky light less than thunderstorms.


==== Water effects ====
The water color texture is not rendered, making it completely transparent. Instead, water volumes scatter light and accumulate fog, creating a deep blue hue in oceans and tinting underwater objects. The surface uses MERS textures, making light reflect on smooth pixels in the invisible color texture. Despite this, small bodies of water appear almost invisible, and large bodies are more transparent in general, with a less saturated blue color compared to classic graphics modes. Biome-specific water colors are not applied to the surface or light scattering, but some "tweaks in different biomes" have been announced for future updates.
When the player's eye level is inside water, underwater fog appears more dynamically tinted by directional lighting, brighter in vertical directions and darker in horizontal directions. Looking at a bright area when the camera is in the dark, the fog is illuminated where light falls down. Additionally, underwater volumetric fog effects colors this bright blue, creating light beams falling through the water. These light beams can be obstructed and scattered by objects and fog effects. 
When directional lighting hits a surface underwater, water caustics are projected on that surface. Water caustics are randomly animated, and certain parts appear brighter than others, depending on the light projecting the water caustics. The effect of Snell's window appears when looking at any water surface from underwater.
Water effects do not apply to water in cauldrons, which is rendered like in Fancy graphics.


=== Post processing effects ===
Post-processing effects are visual elements that are not directly produced by either PBR or direct lighting sources, but are instead applied after the scene is fully rendered. There are multiple post-processing effects applied by Vibrant Visuals, such as:

Light bloom which appears on high-luminance areas, notably emissive textures and reflections, directional light sources, direct specular highlights, and mie scattering. It creates a soft and hazy aura of light around the glowing object, with the colors bleeding out around the object. The effect's intensity can be configured on the video settings.
When the camera is looking at a high luminance, either directional lighting, emissive textures, or bright diffuse, the whole view gets darkened by auto-exposure.
Auto-exposure gradually fades in or out when the luminance changes to as a simulation of eye adaptation.
Upscaling which is done from low-resolution scene renders. The game usually renders the scene at a lower resolution and upscales it to the native resolution to improve video performance. This effect can be configured on the video settings, where the player can set between TAAU (Temporal Anti-Aliasing Upsampling) and Bilinear mode, and the final resolution quality. In general, TAAU makes the game use multiple frames to create a crisper upscaled frame, while Bilinear stretches the frame to fit the screen, more suitable for low-end devices.
Color grading which controls the saturation, contrast, gain, and gamma of the final image.
There is an additional temperature-based color grading which makes the scene look "warmer" with more yellow and orange colors, and "cooler" with more blue color. 14 different color grading effects are applied based on the biome, some biomes also have different contrast or saturation.
Tone mapping is also used to remap the colors from the initial HDR to SDR, as Minecraft is not supported in HDR. Mojang Studios developed a generic filmic tone mapping curve, which preserves tint in higher luminance regions, making the scene appear brighter and more vibrantly colored.


=== Panorama ===
An exclusive panorama is shown when using Vibrant Visuals. The cubemap consists of HDR image files, which are rendered using the post-processing effects from Vibrant Visuals. Specifically, the image uses the default data-driven color grading settings, and the gamma, upscaling mode, and resolution settings affect it.


== Applying ==
Vibrant Visuals can be toggled on in the video settings in the graphics mode dropdown menu. The graphics mode can only be changed in-game when "Allow In-Game Graphics Mode Switching" is turned on, but this can have negative impact on performance and not all devices support this.
If playing multiplayer, not everyone needs to have it activated to play in the world; one player could have it activated, whilst other players could have it inactive since it's a local setting.


=== Vibrant Visuals options ===

The quality of specific features from Vibrant Visuals as well as some technical options can be adjusted in the Vibrant Visuals options, below the graphics mode setting. These options can be preset to the "Favor Performance" for a better experience on lower-end devices, or "Favor Visuals" for a higher quality of Vibrant Visuals on high-end devices. The options can also be adjusted individually.
The render distance for Vibrant Visuals is controlled by the "Deferred Render Distance" slider instead of the regular render distance slider. This slider can be set between 8-28 chunks (may be lower on some devices), but can be changed to any value chunks in options.txt. Higher render distances than 128 chunks will result in the game not loading any chunks further than 128 chunks away from the player, and even higher render distances can lead to glitched visual effects or crashes. Lower render distances than 8 chunks will result in the game not loading any chunks further away than the set render distance, but chunks won't be unloaded until they are further away than 8 chunks. A render distance of 0 chunks results in no chunks being loaded, but entities and particles are still visible.
The regular brightness setting is not available when using Vibrant Visuals, but the brightness can be calibrated in a separate menu in the Vibrant Visuals options. This also affects the brightness of the panorama.


==== Configurations ====
All options related to Vibrant Visuals have configurations for specific devices. The default settings for each preset, and the renderer configurations per setting differs between devices. The setting configurations can be found in  Content/data/renderer as JSON files, with all renderer configurations located in a "lods" sub-directory. These files contain all available options per device, and a platform_configuration.json file contains all defaults for each generic graphics setting. There are separate configurations for three Android memory tiers, Xbox One (X) and Xbox Series X|S, all PS4 and PS5 consoles, three iOS devices memory tiers, and four Windows memory tiers.
There are also configurations for ChromeOS and Nintendo Switch, indicating that Vibrant Visuals may become available on those devices in the future.
This directory also contains configurations for features that are not customizable in resource packs, including tone mapping curves, deferred shading parameters, light clustering, luminance configurations, weather effects, .bin material files, anda brdf_lut.png image used to calibrate BRDF specular and diffuse reflections.


== Availability ==
Vibrant Visuals is available to use on the following platforms:

Vibrant Visuals is currently not supported on ChromeOS devices, Fire tablets, or Nintendo Switch consoles. Mojang Studios intends to bring Vibrant Visuals, either fully or partially, to as many devices as possible. Though not strictly official, Vibrant Visuals may also be supported on Linux systems by playing Bedrock Edition through a custom Wine compatibility layer (see related tutorial).
Some servers may disable Vibrant Visuals during the game using disable-client-vibrant-visuals in server.properties, even when available on singleplayer. All featured servers besides Mob Maze and The Hive have disabled Vibrant Visuals, although this restriction can be circumvented by using third-party modification software. Minecraft Realms has Vibrant Visuals enabled.
During local splitscreen multiplayer on consoles, the graphics mode is restricted to Fancy or lower.
Vibrant Visuals has limited compatibility with resource packs, which may be part of an add-on. Resource packs without the pbr capability restrict the graphics mode to Fancy or lower. When a pack has metadata.product_type set to addon Vibrant Visuals can be enabled, regardless of the pbr capability. Custom textures from the add-on's resource pack default to 0% metalness, 0% emissiveness, 100% roughness, and 0% subsurface scattering.


=== Java Edition ===
Vibrant Visuals is currently planned to be added to Java Edition at some point in the future. In preparation, developers are rebuilding the game's rendering code into a dedicated thread, and updating them with "modern approaches to rendering".
To allow newer graphical features and sustain compatibility with all platforms supporting Java Edition, the game will switch to Vulkan, a modern graphics technology, replacing the deprecated OpenGL API. During development, this can be toggled in-game.​[upcoming: JE 26.2]


== Customization ==

Vibrant Visuals can be customized with a resource pack. A pack with pbr capability in its manifest.json can define PBR for each individual texture with a texture set. They can also configure light sources, atmospheric effects, volumetric fog and light shafts, color grading and tone mapping, and many more.
Vibrant Visuals is also compatible with resource packs that are designed for ray tracing (with raytraced capability). All ray tracing resource packs only support MER (metalness, emissive, and roughness) for its textures, and these can be applied for blocks only. Vibrant Visuals resource packs however, support MER and subsurface scattering (MERS), and its textures can be applied for entities, mobs, particles, and items.
Global lighting, atmospherics, color grading, cubemaps, and water effects can be customized for each biome. Multiple JSON configuration files can be stored in each directory as long as they have different names and identifiers, which are not the same as the global configurations. To apply settings to a biome, the identifier of the JSON file must be included in the client biome JSON file in  biomes, in the minecraft:setting_identifier components. The configurations will be blended automatically on biome borders, except for tone mapping, orbital offset, caustics, and waves enabled/disabled, which should use the same settings globally.
Resource packs that customize Vibrant Visuals can quickly be created with Bedrock Editor. The Vibrant Visuals Settings window allows most JSON configurations to be changed in a graphical environment, and the effects are directly visible in-game. All settings are not saved, but each JSON file can be copied to the clipboard, or a resource pack with all settings can be auto-generated. Once generated, Download Resource Pack will import the pack in mctools.dev, where the pack can be directly exported or further customized.
In the Editor, settings for existing biomes or configurations can be changed, and even new configurations may be added. A biome can be selected with Target Biome (Target Biomes By Location selects the player's current biome), if custom biomes are used the namespace can be changed to disambiguate. Next, the Config Set for Biome selects which settings file is used for the selected configurations. This allows to reorganize vanilla settings in a biome, and the raw JSON text of the client biome file can be copied. A new configuration file can also be created, with a custom namespace and identifier (both cannot have spaces), and it can be auto-filled by inserting the raw JSON content in the Inport button.


=== Texture sets ===

Textures from blocks, entities, items (held, displayed, and dropped), and particles use texture sets to calculate how light behaves on the texture, regarding reflections and emissiveness. Texture sets cannot be customized with Bedrock Editor. On top of the regular RGBA texture maps, which control the colors and transparency, Vibrant Visuals uses six new maps for other properties of each pixel, including metalness, emissive, roughness, subsurface scattering, normal, and height maps. The first four are all created in one four-channel image file, collectively known as MERS values (or MER without subsurface scattering).

Metalness is a texture map on the red channel that affect how metallic pixels look, which makes them more reflective. Pixels can use metalness values between black (non-metallic) and red (completely metalic), where metalness for values in between is affected by the brightness.
The green channel emissive map is used for pixels that emit light. Black pixels do not emit light at all, and any brighter values result in emissive textures. Pure white pixels are emissive at its brightest. The desaturation of the pixel's colors can be adjusted per biome in  lighting.
Subsurface scattering is an effect created by light shining on translucent surfaces. It is a map based on the alpha channel where opaque pixels allow more subsurface scattering. This texture map cannot be used in conjunction with the metalness map; if both are provided only the highest value will be applied (subsurface scattering when tied).
Roughness is a blue channel texture map affecting how "rough" pixels are, which can block reflection effects. Black pixels are very smooth and allow all reflections caused by the metalness map, while blue pixels only allow (distorted) light reflection.
The normal map is an RGB texture map which affect the depth of the pixel and how light rays are reflected. The RGB elements correspond to XYZ coordinates of the pixel, with (128, 128, 255) being completely flat.
Height maps are similar to normal maps but in grayscale, allowing less possible textures. Black pixels appear to extrude inward to the object, and white pixels extrude outward. Combining black and white pixels next to each other can create height variation on which light can reflect, while creating a shadow behind. Heightmaps cannot be used together with normal maps.

Texture maps can be quickly created using Blockbench, which may require plugins to customize textures. The PBR textures need to be placed, named like block/particle/entity/item ID_mers / _mer / _height / _normal, in  textures, in the sub-directory containing textures for the object type. Texture maps can be stored in .tga, .png, .jpg, and .jpeg formats. To make the game replace the default textures with a custom texture set, it needs to be specified in a texture set JSON file, on file for each texture, located in the same sub-directory as the texture itself. All texture maps specified in the texture set are required in the same resource pack.
Instead of creating texture maps, the JSON file can also be used to apply uniform MERS or RGBA values to the whole texture.

texture_set.json format


==== Fallback values ====
When a resource pack does not contain one or more texture maps, the missing texture maps will default to the vanilla textures instead. However, for custom textures as part of an add-on, all pixels default to values specified in a customizable JSON file in  pbr.

global.json format


=== Lighting ===
Various types of light sources can be customized, which are split into global lighting and local lighting in the  lighting and  local_lighting directories. Global light settings are defined per biome and require different JSON files for each biome or set of biomes and need to be specified in  biome.client_biome.json. Local light settings are applied for individual blocks specified in one JSON file. Local lighting currently only includes point lights, while global lighting includes directional lights, emissive textures, ambient light, and sky light.

Directional lighting includes the sun and moon (orbital), and End flash. For each object, the total brightness can be adjusted, and the color of that lighting. This affects the sky and atmospheric scattering, and all objects lit by the directional light source, which are both also affected by texture sets, atmospheric settings, and color grading.
All values for directional lighting in the JSON file and in Bedrock Editor support multiple key frames for different in-game times. See § Atmospherics below for more information.
For the sun and the moon, the orbital offset can be customized, which affects how the orbit is rotated towards the south (can be rotated 360 degrees). This can also be keyframed, which allows to customize the position of the sun and moon depending on the in-game time. 
Emissive lights are produced by blocks, entities, and particles with emissive pixels in their texture set. The desaturation of the color of the pixel can be adjusted per biome. 
Ambient lighting is always applied and makes blocks visible when there are no other light sources. The strength and color of this light can be adjusted.
Sky lighting is applied to surfaces exposed to the sky. The intensity can be adjusted, which affects how dark shadows are compared to surfaces lit by directional lighting.
Static lights are local light sources set per block. They do not create specular highlights or dynamic shadows and are fixed in space and in brightness. It can only be used by blocks with "regular" lighting, which affects the strength. The color of this static light can be customized. When multiple static lights with different colors are overlapping in an area, the total luminance will add up.
Point lights are local directional light sources in blocks, only available in the "Render Dragon Features for Creators" experiment in Minecraft Preview. Point lights are created by a single point in the center of the block, with a specific color similar to the color for global directional lighting. Static lights are automatically also added to blocks with point lighting. The strength of the point light is affected by the block lighting of the block.
global.json format

local_lighting.json format
The point_light type is only available in the "Render Dragon Features for Creators" experiment. Existing light settings can be changed in the Editor, which includes most blocks when the experiment is enabled. Adding new blocks requires to import custom JSON settings.


=== Atmospherics ===
The colors and some other values for the sky can be changed in  atmospherics. The atmospheric effects include separate horizon and zenith colors, and mie scattering. The horizon and zenith colors blend into each other depending on the specified heights for both colors. Rayleigh scattering affects global illumination of the horizon and zenith. Mie scattering, created by the sun and moon, can also specify a height and shape.
In this JSON file, all values can be individually key framed. Instead of providing a single value for a setting, the setting can be treated as an object with a set of values from the same type. The key is a number from 0 to 1 which represents the in-game time, allowing to change atmospherics based on the time of day. The engine linearly interpolates between the values of the key frames, resulting in the actual atmospherics blending between specified times. A key of 0 is noon, 0.25 is sunset, 0.5 midnight, 0.75 sunrise, and 1 is the next noon.

In Bedrock Editor, a set of different key frames can be adjusted individually. The amount of available key frames varies for each setting, which can only be changed by importing JSON settings. With the slider below each graph, the key value for the X-axis can be seen. The Y-axis shows all values for the setting. Each key can be moved horizontally and vertically, and all keys are connected with a line corresponding to the linear interpolation. Double-clicking on a key shows text boxes for the exact coordinates, and a color picker in RGB-supported settings.

atmospherics.json format


==== Scripting ====
The atmospherics can also be dynamically overridden by the game's scripting modules. In @minecraft/server-graphics, all above settings can be customized per biome in the format set<setting in camel case>(setting: input, biomeIdentifier: biome ID): void. The input is similar to the JSON format above: either a float number or key framed float (number, number), or an RGB input red; green; blue, which can also be key framed. Atmospherics can be reset to the data-driven values using reset with the biome.
getBiomeAtmospherics can be used with the biome and atmospherics component to retrieve the current values.​[upcoming: BE 26.20]


=== Fog ===
The fog in Vibrant Visuals can be customized per biome in the same JSON file as regular fog in  fogs, and using the /fog command. However, Vibrant Visuals has some options for more complex volumetric fog and Henyey-Greenstein G.
The density of volumetric fog can be adjusted, either for specified heights or every height, for each block where fog occurs in different situations (air, water, lava). For fog in the air, clouds, or water, the color of the fog can be specified. Finally, Vibrant Visuals allows to change light shafts inside fog for water and air. All fog settings are optional, if not specified they will equal to lower settings in the fog stack, first global values and then default values.
For all settings and the JSON format, see Fog definition.


=== Color grading ===
Configurations for color grading and tone mapping can be adjusted for various situations and colors, making the final look of the scene fully customizable. Both post-processing effects are configured in JSON file per biome in the  color_grading directory.
Color grading is split into three scales based on lighting applied to the objects, and there is an additional temperature grading option. The highlight parameters are applied to the brightest pixels, the shadows to the darkest pixels, and midtones to pixels close to the average luminance of a scene. Highlights and shadows need to be enabled for specified color grading, otherwise the midtone parameters will be applied to all pixels as a global setting. The minimum brightness of the highlights and maximum brightness of the shadows affect which pixels are considered highlights and shadows instead of midtones.
For each color grading parameter, different values for each RGB color can be specified.

The contrast affects the pixels with different luminances from the average luminance. Higher contrast values will increase brightness of highlights and darken shadows, while lower contrast values result in a more gray image with less differences in color and brightness.
Gain affects the luminance intensity of the whole image, regardless of the luminance of a pixel.
Similar to gain, the gamma affects the overall luminance intensity of all pixels, but after all other post-processing effects have been applied.
The offset adjusts the intensity of pixels based on the average luminance of the scene, which is added to all pixels and has a stronger effect on brighter pixels than darker pixels.
Saturation changes the intensity of colors apart from their luminance. Higher values increase the intensity, while lower values result in a grayscale image.
Finally, the temperature can be adjusted for the whole image, affecting how "warm" (yellow/orange) or "cool" (blue) the scene becomes. The type of temperature grading can be inverted, to make higher temperatures result in a warmer or cooler image.

The tone mapping effect cannot be customized for individual curves, but there are six operators that can be selected. Reinhard is a generic operator which looks good in low-contrast scenes and has a lower quality for higher luminances. Reinhard Luma is an extended variant that preserves details in low dynamic range regions, and Reinhard Luminance is a variant that preserves colors in higher luminance regions.
There are also filmic tone mapping operators, which emulate real-life film and work best when other Vibrant Visuals configurations are based on physically accurate values. Hable and ACES are filmic operators which preserve subtle differences in extremely dark or bright scenes, but come at a higher performance cost. Mojang Studios has developed a generic filmic tone mapping curve which preserves a bit more hue saturation at high luminance regions.

color_grading.json format


=== Cubemaps ===
Cubemaps are six 2D textures always rendered around the player which are affected by directional, ambient, and sky lighting, and scattering. They can be customized in  cubemaps for each biome or set of biomes. Custom cubemaps only affect the Overworld, the cubemap used in the End sky is unaffected.
The influence of each type of light on the cubemap can be customized, but it is always dependent of the biome's lighting settings and which types of lighting are currently applied. Cubemaps can be affected by two types of scattering. Depending on whether the cubemap contains objects in the sky (such as clouds), or in space (such as stars), atmospheric scattering should be turned on or off, respectively. Volumetric scattering lets fog and light shafts affect the cubemap, for objects close to the surface.

cubemap.json format


=== Shadows ===

There are two settings for shadows created by blocks, entities, and some other objects. They can be changed with a JSON file in  shadows and are applied globally.

The shadow style affects which type of shadows are rendered. This can be soft, which is often used in third-party shaders and other video games, or blocky, which is used in default Vibrant Visuals. Both types are affected by the shape of the object casting the shadows.
The texel size represents the resolution in texture to which shadows will be quantized. For the best effect, this should be the same as the pixel resolution used for block textures, which makes shadows align with the pixel grid.
global.json format


=== Water ===

Water effects can be customized per biome or for default water in the  water directory. Instead of blending the effects per biome based on the camera's location, the water color is set for the location of the water block in the world, meaning that multiple biome effects for water can be observed at once.
There are three elements that can be customized: particle concentrations, waves, and caustics.

Particle concentrations affect the fog color and underwater light scattering. There are three particle concentrations in mg/L, which aren't used in default Vibrant Visuals:
CDOM produces yellow to yellow-brown collors. Low values result in a fresh, blue appearance, like real-life oceans, and rivers have higher CDOM and more colored water.
Chlorophyll produces green colors, which varies based on the temperature in real life.
Suspended sediment produces red to red-brown colors, which appears more in real-life rivers.
Waves are animations on the surface of water, disabled in default Vibrant Visuals. They can partially replace the water surface texture by actual three-dimensional textures, but this doesn't affect gameplay. Waves can be customized with various settings, which affect speed variations, smoother or sharper shapes, the amount of waves (and variations) per block, and the height of waves. Individual wave animations can blend into each other and pull into larger waves, which can be customized.
Caustics are animated textures projected on any object surfaces behind a water surface when directional lighting hits the surface, which are enabled by default. The caustics use an internal texture with 64 frames of animation, but this can be changed to any custom texture. The speed of the animation (frame length) and scale can be customized, and the intensity can be increased.
A custom caustics texture must have all animation frames laid out vertically next to each other, each using the same square resolution. It should be located under the  textures directory in the resource pack, declared in  textures_list.json.
The biome's water color is ignored by default in Vibrant Visuals, but the contribution of the regular water color to the fog can be increased. Depending on the setting, water fog and scatttering will be tinted with a color specified in the client biome file, which is applied prior to the effects from particle concentrations.
water.json format


== Quotes ==


== Sounds ==


== Videos ==


== History ==


=== Announcement ===
Vibrant Visuals was revealed at Minecraft LIVE – March 2025, planned for Bedrock Edition in the coming months, with more improvements over the next few years.
It is planned to come to Java Edition in the future, but without colored lighting. Developers are rewriting the rendering code before Vibrant Visuals will be added to all Java Edition supported devices. In order to implement more graphical features and sustain compatibility with macOS, the game will switch from OpenGL to the Vulkan graphics API in the summer of 2026, which can be toggled in-game until development is ready.


=== Deferred Technical Preview ===

Before Vibrant Visuals was released, the deferred rendering engine was available behind the "Render Dragon Features for Creators" experiment in Minecraft Preview. This was built on the features for ray tracing, and gradually developed more exclusive rendering features. Unlike Vibrant Visuals, Mojang Studios did not provide any default configurations and textures, meaning that it needed to be configured first through resource packs, similar to ray tracing.
Since the vanilla implementation of Vibrant Visuals, the experimental deferred lighting mode has been merged with the graphics upgrade. However, the experiment is still used for other deferred rendering features that are not implemented in Vibrant Visuals, such as colored lighting.


=== Bedrock Edition ===


=== Java Edition ===


== Issues ==
Issues relating to "Vibrant Visuals" are maintained on the bug tracker. Issues should be reported and viewed there.


== Trivia ==

Vibrant Visuals can be enabled in worlds locked in any older version using world templates and a PBR-enabled resource pack. This ignores all resource packs from versions above the world's version, including Vibrant Visuals configurations and textures. Below 1.21.90, this results in interesting behavior for some features, while most others function normally:
All MERS textures are ignored, making environments without directional lighting appear identical to classic graphics modes.
Atmospherics and lighting configurations are not applied, defaulting to the hard-coded values, and some environmental effects do not appear at all. Sunset and sunrise for example, tint the zenith sky dark blue and the horizon red, much brighter than regular colors.
Shadows are not blocky but soft.
End flashes still occur, but are not colored and appear white.
The End sky is not colored below the horizon, resembling the classic End sky with Night Vision. At zenith however, the sky is tinted dark green/blue.
Without brightness configurations, directional lighting from the sun appears glitched, and excessively bright.
The Nether roof is completely glitched without any light.
Water reflections or cubemaps don't appear, deep water looks shadow blue.
For a moment in the loading world screen before entering the world, the panorama renders with the missing texture.
The introduction of Vibrant Visuals added MERS textures for any block, entity, and particle present in all vanilla resources, including unused textures and various old textures kept for backward-compatibility. However, these can never be encountered in-game because loading an old world will ignore the resource packs containing these textures.
According to developers, the deferred rendering mode was build on parts from the RTX pipeline and the rendering pipeline from Minecraft Legends since 2020.
The vanilla resources contain unused "hot" atmospherics, lighting, and color grading. This generally increases the effects from desert and mesa biomes, but the sky uses a dark blue color instead of turquoise green.
In physically based rendering, the block light of a torch is 1262.665039 lumens. 


== Gallery ==


=== Textures ===


=== Screenshots ===


==== Settings ====


==== Historical screenshots ====


=== Vibrant Visuals announcement ===


=== Chase the Skies announcement ===


== See also ==
Overworld Adventures, a series of online stories made to promote Vibrant Visuals.
Vibrant Memories Add-On, an add-on made to promote the initial launch.
Vibrant Adventures, an adventure world template featured in the Vibrant Visuals-tagged contents in the Marketplace.
Shader, the previous system of graphics enhancement in Bedrock Edition using resource packs which is still used in Java Edition.
Shader packs, similar but unofficial graphic enhancement mods for Java Edition.
Super Duper Graphics Pack, a previously cancelled graphics update for Bedrock Edition.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
"Vibrant Visuals"     – Minecraft.net, March 22, 2025.
"Vibrant Visuals: Enable Enhanced Minecraft Graphics"     – Minecraft.net.
Deferred lighting starter samples on GitHub.
Vibrant Visuals packs in the Marketplace.
Vibrant Vanguard, an unofficial Discord server sanctioned by Mojang for developers and modders to discuss Vibrant Visuals development on Java Edition.


=== Feedback ===
Vibrant Visuals – Minecraft Feedback.
Vibrant Visuals FAQ Thread – July 30, 2025.
Known Issues (Read before you post!) – July 30, 2025.
Let's talk about water in Vibrant Visuals! – April 3, 2025.
Let's talk about lava in Vibrant Visuals! – April 3, 2025.
Let's talk about reflections & roughness on material surfaces and blocks! – April 3, 2025.
Feedback Discord


== Navigation ==