Patch 3  is a version of Wii U Edition released on February 26, 2016.  This version is equivalent to Java Edition 1.8, adding content from the Bountiful Update.
[edit]


== Additions ==


=== Blocks ===
Added podzol, granite, polished granite, andesite, polished andesite, diorite, polished diorite, prismarine, dark prismarine, prismarine bricks, red sand, red sandstone, smooth red sandstone, chiseled red sandstone, red sandstone stairs, sea lanterns, wet sponge, slime blocks, coarse dirt, packed ice, acacia leaves, dark oak leaves, acacia saplings, dark oak saplings, and barriers.


=== Items ===
Added armor stand, raw rabbit, cooked rabbit, rabbit stew, raw mutton, cooked mutton, rabbit's foot, rabbit hide, potion of Leaping, potion of Water Breathing, salmon, cooked salmon, clownfish, pufferfish, blue orchid, allium, azure bluet, tulips, oxeye daisy, sunflower, lilac, poppy (replaces rose), rose bush, peony, double tall grass, large ferns, prismarine crystals, and prismarine shard.
Spawn eggs in Creative mode for rabbits, endermites, and guardians.


=== Mobs ===
Endermite, guardian, elder guardian, rabbit, chicken jockey.
Rabbits have new models.[more information needed]


=== World generation ===
Structures

Added ocean monuments
Biomes

Added Mesa, Mega Taiga, Roofed Forest, Birch Forest, Forest, Savanna, Extreme Hills+, Deep Ocean, Snowless Taiga, and 20 new technical biomes.
Terrain generation changes to the Nether.


=== Gameplay ===
Enchantments

Luck of the Sea, Lure, Depth Strider
Creative Inventory

Added silverfish mossy stone brick, silverfish cracked stone brick, and silverfish chiseled stone brick variants of silverfish blocks to the Creative inventory.


=== General ===
Tutorial

Created a new tutorial world.
Terrain generation changes to the Nether.
Skin packs

Added Biome Settlers Skin Pack 1.


== Changes ==


=== Blocks ===
Activator rails

If powered, they now dismount entities riding minecarts.
All acacia and dark oak related blocks 

Are now obtainable in Survival mode.
Anvil 

Repairing has been rebalanced.
Buttons 

Can now be placed on the top and bottom of blocks.
Cauldrons 

Will put out burning entities if filled with water, taking away one water level each time.
Cracked stone bricks and sponges 

Are now obtainable via smelting.
Dispensers

Can place pumpkins or wither skeleton skulls to spawn iron golems, snow golems, and withers, provided the body is built in a valid configuration.
Furnace

When it runs out of fuel, the smelting progress will rewind at 2 speed.
Empty furnaces will only accept fuel and empty buckets in the fuel slot.
Huge mushrooms

When harvested with Silk Touch enchantment, now drop blocks with corresponding mushroom texture (red or brown) on all sides, rather than the one with spores.
Monster Spawners 

Can now have the mob they spawn change by placing the corresponding spawn egg
Moss stone, mossy stone bricks, and chiseled stone bricks 

Are now obtainable via crafting.
Redstone comparators 

Can now detect the rotation of an item in an item frame and output an equivalent power signal.
Sponges 

Are now obtainable in survival mode and now soak up contiguous water source blocks out to a taxicab distance of 5 when placed, thereupon turning into a new wet sponge.
Wooden fences

No longer connect to Nether brick fences.


=== Items ===
Arrows decelerate much more quickly underwater and extinguish if on fire.
Updated audio for minecarts.
Poppy and dandelion now only yield 1 dye item instead of 2.


=== Mobs ===
Most mobs can now swim.
Babies' growth can be accelerated by feeding them.
Cows

Updated sounds
Skeletons and rabbits 

Now flee from wolves.
Creepers 

Can now be ignited with flint and steel.
Zombies, skeletons, wither skeletons, and creepers drop their head when killed by a charged creeper. Charged creeper explosions do not yield more than one mob head, regardless of how many mobs were killed by it.
Iron golems, snow golems, and withers

Can be spawned by arranging the blocks, in equivalent rotations of the default on the horizontal plane.
This does not affect the orientation of the spawned mob.
Mooshrooms

Updated sounds.
Sheep

Now drop mutton when they die.
Shrubs

Can now drop wheat seeds.
Can no longer be placed in flower pots. Potted shrubs in old worlds are retained.
Snow golems

Can be spawned by arranging the blocks, in equivalent rotations of the default on the horizontal plane.
This does not affect the orientation of the spawned mob.
Spiders

No longer see players through solid blocks.
Tamed ocelots & tamed wolves

Display a death message in chat if they were named with a name tag.
Villagers 

Have additional professions and trades .
Will now harvest crops if they are farmers
Will only breed when willing
Will turn into witches when struck by lightning.
Witches

Can now drink and drop potions of Water Breathing.
Withers

Can be spawned by arranging the blocks, in equivalent rotations of the default on the horizontal plane.
This does not affect the orientation of the spawned mob.
Wither skeletons 

No longer visibly catch fire when going into fire or lava.
Zombies 

Baby zombies now drop experience.
Zombie pigmen 

Adult zombie pigmen will forgive after a short time (and lose the aggression speed boost), but will continue to attack until the player escapes their aggression distance.


=== Non-mob entities ===
 Players 

Now start with an empty map instead of an already drawn map.
 Item frames

Can now rotate in 8 directions.
Are no longer broken with one click when punched if they have an item inside. Now only the item is taken out.


=== World generation ===
Melons can now be found in jungle biomes similar to pumpkins.
Swamp biomes now spawn with blue orchid flowers and the coast is covered in staggered dirt blocks with lily pads between them.
Plains biomes now generate with azure bluets, oxeye daises, tulips, and double tall grass.
Extreme hills biomes now have snow at higher elevations, gravel, flat valleys near sea level, and are slightly higher.
Ocean biomes contains only gravel on the floor instead of sand, dirt, and gravel.
Desert temples now spawn with stained clay instead of dyed wool.
Gravel roads in villages have cobblestone underneath, to prevent them from collapsing into caves.
Chests in Nether fortresses now have the possibility of containing obsidian.


=== Gameplay ===
Fishing

Now has particle effects - bubbles will show up moving towards the bobber just before the player has something on the hook. This has the appearance of a fish swimming towards the hook.
New items can be caught from fishing
Treasure: enchanted fishing rod, enchanted bow, enchanted book, name tag, tripwire hook, lily pad, and saddle.
Junk: damaged fishing rod, water bottle, rotten flesh, string, leather, bowl, stick, bone, tripwire hook, ink sac, and damaged leather boots.
Enchanting

Now consumes lapis lazuli and has been rebalanced.
Enchanted books can receive multiple enchants at once.


=== General ===
Chat messages of the set day and set night host options now say "day" or "night" instead of displaying the time as numbers.
Falling has particle effects.
Particle circumference size depends on distance fallen.
Particle appearance depends on the block landed.
Added end portal frames and all types of logs to the custom superflat block selection menu.
Removed sponges from the custom superflat block selection menu.
Mobs can now spawn above the nether roof.
The End has been downscaled from using overworld size to match its building area of 288x288 blocks.
Nether portals

New Nether portal building rules: any rectangular shape from 45 to 2323.
If the portal in the Nether is big enough, ghasts can travel through.
Will now be activated by any fire block within the frame.


== Fixes ==
This version combines fixes from several other console versions
113 issues fixed
MCCE-48  Water Spreading Creates New Source Blocks.
MCCE-571  Interface Opacity and Tooltip Opacity issues on PS Vita.
MCCE-772  Animals get stuck in corners of fence-type blocks.
MCCE-817  Map walls are broken since CU19 on Xbox One.
MCCE-826  Beacon height limit.
MCCE-829  The end build limit is smaller.
MCCE-831  Player skin is the default skin when holding a map.
MCCE-833  When Interface opacity is down, hotbar faded tools will not show their durability.
MCCE-856  Red sandstone stairs texture incorrect.
MCCE-863  The map does not work as it should unless "View Hand" is turned on.
MCCE-865  Rabbits only appear to spawn naturally in snow biomes.
MCCE-878  Book and quill saving issue: opening and closing an edited (not signed) writeable book deletes the saved pages.
MCCE-885  Feather Falling enchantment does not reduce fall or ender pearl damage.
MCCE-886  Feather Falling IV not working
MCCE-962  Increase to slime spawning.
MCCE-1009  Skulls in the inventory and held in first person are oversized.
MCCE-1024  Raw fish and raw salmon have the same texture in the Natural Texture Pack.
MCCE-1072  In the City Texture Pack it shows smooth red sandstone as a rough block but when you place it, it is smooth.
MCCE-1091  Some fire caused by ghast's fireball explosion is not displayed.
MCCE-1127  Wolfs default collar color had changed from orange to red.
MCCE-1142  Minecraft Capes using incorrect texture.
MCCE-1192  Texture under the bed is the texture of the top of the bed.
MCCE-1202  Map dark when facing north or south.
MCCE-1214  Texture of any potion turns black while holding it in the End or Nether.
MCCE-1349  Penned animals de-spawn when leaving the chunk.
MCCE-1366  When placing a torch under water to reset / refill the air meter will often cause a crash.
MCCE-1367  Melon farm with piston causes crash.
MCCE-1403  Hunger meter always regenerates when switching from peaceful to any other difficulty.
MCCE-1415  Hunger meter depletion glitch
MCCE-1434  Fishing rod bobber sticks to walls.
MCCE-1455  Piston/slime block duplication.
MCCE-1457  TNT can destroy blocks placed well beyond the world border.
MCCE-1476  Skin Pack 6: Faith Connors' Mirror's Edge Skin first person view bugged on Xbox 360.
MCCE-1488  'Getting an Upgrade' trophy/achievement fails to unlock while crafting a stone pickaxe using classic crafting.
Fix for crash when ender chest is mined for a few seconds.
Fix for an intermittent crash when placing beds on snow.
Fix for a crash when a Superflat world session with a combination of multiple planks or wood, lava and air layers is saved.
Fix for a crash after destroying blocks and exploring a Superflat world with multiple sand, air and TNT Layers.
Improved random seed generator to select worlds with a better spread of biomes.
Fix for villagers not harvesting crops from farmland created by the player.
Fix for glass not being able to be broken by hand in Adventure mode.
Fix for an issue where the user renames a 'Spawn Egg' and places it in water, causing debug text to be displayed.
Fix for an issue when the "Body Guard" trophy/achievement does not unlock as expected when the iron golem is built in a certain way.
Fix for an issue where a player cannot see other players after dying and respawning.
Fix for an issue where baby horses appear to be adults after being fed with one golden carrot.
Fix for issue where two primary powers can be applied to the player's character through the beacon UI.
Fix for an issue where a torch and a redstone torch have two hitboxes.
Fix for de-spawn protections not being applied to baby animals created with spawn eggs.
Fix for issue where item quantity for bottle o' enchanting, Nether star, enchanted golden apple, and strength indicator for potions are not affected by Interface Opacity when in Quick Select.
Fix for death message with incorrect text is displayed when the player is killed with a named weapon.
Fix for worlds generating slightly differently every time even with the same seed.
Fix for issue where leather armor, spawn eggs, and potions are displayed improperly when the player is above 256 blocks or is in a place where there is no source of daylight.
Fix for doors, trapdoors, and fence gates missing a sound effect when closing.
Fix for issue where opening certain menus does not cancel the eating, drinking, or bow charging animations.
Fixed an issue where items that have no custom names were not showing up in edit text field in the anvil.
Fix for ocelots not sprinting away from the player.
Fix for pistons and objects pushed by them having corrupted, black textures while animating.
Fix for falling gravel, sand, and red sand blocks displaying with very dark textures.
Fix for issue where texture pack changes to vanilla Minecraft textures if the player joins a friend's session.
Added first person rendering of additional skin parts for the left and right arms.
Fix for an issue when in a split-screen session where at least one player does not get critical hit particles.
Fix for seeing through the base of falling blocks.
Fix for missing mining animation for skulls, heads, signs, chests, and beacons.
Fix for issue where changing the Interface Opacity to specific values causes visual issues with the item and button icons on the HUD.
Fix for issue when traveling directly north or south in a minecart where the player automatically turns to face eastwards.
Fix for missing tooltip for 'Exit' / 'Dismount' actions.
Fix for guardians not being spawned around ocean monuments on a Superflat world.
Fix for city Texture Pack missing textures for multiple kinds of doors while holding in the player's hand
Fix for sign text not displaying.
Fix for cows needing to take 11 hits with hand or 3 hits with any sword to be killed.
Fix for clownfish description displaying incorrect information.

Fixed an issue unlocking the 'Iron Belly' achievement.

29 issues fixed
MCCE-11  Tall building glitch
MCCE-29  Cloud sync fails
MCCE-61  Heart misplace
MCCE-64  Falling sand bug
MCCE-85  Jukebox: "Now playing: Music Disc" never disappears
MCCE-89  Lead animation incorrect when horse is tied to post
MCCE-181  Inventory and world save were at different points
MCCE-216  No Minecart Sound
MCCE-237  Beacon Beam working incorrectly.
MCCE-245  Hoppers always enabled with redstone deactivation.
MCCE-298  Faliure to load:' Already Playing Game'
MCCE-390  Title lags or crashes when creating a superflat world with many layers of degrading grass or mycelium tiles.
MCCE-420  Doors do not stack correctly (should stack up to 64)
MCCE-438  Double Piston Extenders Broken
MCCE-466  Water flickers/change colors at distance with Natural Texture Pack
MCCE-486  When ending regeneration while health display is bouncing, it stops on a certain frame of the bounce
MCCE-494  Sign hitbox flicker
MCCE-555  No sound when walking on grass
MCCE-564  Horses not spawning
MCCE-598  Lag when looking in some parts of world
MCCE-607  Netherack fence connects to wood fence
MCCE-653  Game mode slider broken
MCCE-656  Survival bug
MCCE-667  Bug when switching game mode
MCCE-668  Switching gamemode in game does not switch completely
MCCE-670  Worlds do not show Creative menu
MCCE-685  Switching between game mode causes game to go crazy
MCCE-734  Wood and Nether brick fences connect
MCCE-762  Iron golems not working

18 issues fixed
MCCE-499  Ocelots Spawning endless
MCCE-635  Chest Quick Move
MCCE-689  Gamemode switch does not work from host options
MCCE-690  Weird Knockback
MCCE-712  Rotten flesh is called Radden fisk in danish
MCCE-786  Single users saves being deleted while others aren't.
MCCE-819  When I save it doesn't always save/the autosave feature does not work
MCCE-863  The map does not work as it should (unless "View Hand" is turned on)
MCCE-1005  Name tags freeze console
MCCE-1026  Stuck in sign unable to type, exit sign or even dashboard
MCCE-1569  Oak and Iron Doors Items have wrong texture In the Inventory
MCCE-1691  Slimes Are Spawning in Witch huts
MCCE-1695  Slime chunk in the End
MCCE-1698  slime spawn in witch hut
MCCE-1706  slimes are spawning in the nether
MCCE-1758  There are slimes sapwning in the Nether
Fix for animals in love mode lacking heart particles for the duration of Love Mode.
Fix for slimes spawning in the Nether.


== See also ==
Xbox 360 Edition TU33
Xbox One Edition CU21
PlayStation 3 Edition 1.24
PlayStation 4 Edition 1.24
PlayStation Vita Edition 1.24


== References ==


== Navigation ==