The wither is an undead mob created using a structure of several blocks, serving as the initial antagonist of Minecraft: Volume 1.


== Appearance ==
The wither resembles the original mob in shape, but with a flat texture and minimal detail. It possesses three skulls, two small and one bigger in the middle, with a cuboid shape. On the face are three lines, representing eyes and teeth. The body of the wither consists of six ribs and what appears to be a bent spine. Unlike wither skeleton skulls, it is fully black in color, as opposed to dark gray.
Within most of its panels, its features are all square or cubic. Its eyes can rotate and mouth bulge for certain expressions. The only exception is when it dies, with its head cleaved in two, inexplicably growing far longer, foaming at the mouth with regular teeth and what appears to be eyebags, suggesting it has flesh.


== Behavior ==
As with its original depiction, the wither is considered a boss mob, being very aggressive and actively destructive of its environment. Within Minecraft, it is considered to be a high challenge, likened to a "nasty bully." Unlike other mobs shown in the game, the wither appears to hold a degree of sentience. Before it's even created, it manifests as tentacles emerging from its blocks, and can complete itself against the will of those nearby. During this state, the wither is shown making a hissing sound.


== Abilities ==
The wither appears to have some form of omnipresence, being conscious within its components and able to manifest tentacles that can control players. These can appear both directly in front of the frame, as well as several feet if not miles away. The tentacles appear incredibly strong, with neither affected player being able to overpower them, and persist after its completion. Beyond this feat, the wither is also presented as unnaturally weak, even though the characters refer to it as nearly unbeatable. Prior to its completion, they reinforce their surroundings with what appears to be stone, even though the mob can destroy the majority of blocks. Moreover, it can be destroyed in one hit by an ordinary diamond sword, which is impossible in regular survival.
Much like its traditional form, it can shoot projectile skulls at players, though these appear to crater 1 block deep and only a few blocks outward. During its fight a crevice is shown opening in the arena, but it is unclear if this is another crater or created through an earthquake. Any life within its surroundings are vulnerable to decay, with Grace's eyes falling victim to this, temporarily blinding her. 


== Biography ==
On the Ever Realm, a group of friends had a goal of constructing a beacon for their base, the Hibiscus House. After discovering a Nether fortress, they were able to claim soul sand and a single skull. However, their portal ended up destroyed when Candace accidentally let a creeper go off near it. When Tyler Collins ended up moving out of town, his friends decided to make progress on their goals to surprise him, building a new portal that led to a new fortress, and an arena to battle the wither in.
Through this opportunity, they discovered a second skull, and showed it to Tyler on his first day back. He decided to place it on the body, but was lifted off the ground by emergent tentacles, visibly confused. Nevertheless, Tyler had to leave for bed, and signed off from the game. While he was preoccupied, Evan and Toby continued work on their arena. Grace and Candace went to scout the Nether and discovered a fortress, encountering several ghasts in the process before falling out of their portal, and revealed they found the final skull needed. As they announce their intention to wait for Tyler, however, the wither manifests tendrils that reach out to Evan, pulling him all the way over to its bones, and completes it against his will.
It storms the arena while the heroes are still weakened from their prior adventures, leaving them defenseless while it destroys the ground. Grace ducks for cover, but becomes withered, losing her eyesight. Candace becomes its next target, terrifying and cornering her against the wall. Before she can be be injured, Tyler swoops in at the last second and defeats the wither in a single blow. The heroes cheer and rejoice, however Tyler is left disappointed, thinking his friends chose to fight the wither behind his back.


== Trivia ==
Prior to the comic, Minecraft: Story Mode also associated the wither with tentacles through the wither storm.


== Gallery ==


=== Pages ===


=== Promotional images ===


== Navigation ==