TU6 (the 1.8.2 Bug Fix Title Update) is a version of Xbox 360 Edition released on November 15, 2012. This version is based on Java Edition Beta 1.8.1.


== Additions ==
Added a quick command to clear the hotbar in creative mode. (X Button)
Added a toggle to turn Void fog on and off. Fog is disabled by default. Void fog is dependent on the game's Hosts's settings.
Added an option to disable HUD and appearance of player hand in graphics settings.
Added a How To Play page for Host and Player options.


== Changes ==
Cakes are now stackable.
Fence collision box decreased to size of fence block
Golden apples and pumpkin seeds can now be crafted.
Golden apple recipe uses gold ingots in place of nuggets.


== Fixes ==
Fix for renaming save files.
Fix for worlds created pre-1.8.2 crashing because of signs.
Fix for respawning players appearing on maps while "Gamertag Display" is disabled.
Fix for water and lava buckets in creative mode not having infinite uses as intended.
Fix for mob generation code to spawn more animals in the world.
Fix for chests being incorrectly lit and placed on worlds created before the 1.8.2 update.
Fix for eating animation showing on players who weren't eating.
Fix for chest lids not behaving properly.
Fix for game sounds not playing when player has an empty hand.
Fix for mobs appearing to take damage when they aren't.
Fix for Lever and fence gate sounds.
Fix for Leader of the Pack achievement being incorrectly rewarded.
Fix for Leaderboard stats.
Fix for hitbox issues with glass panes and iron bars
Fix for the small-character display turning green.
Fix for splitscreen players having settings set to zero.
Fix for issues with rendering with clouds disabled and rendering blocks at the edge of the map.
Fix for splitscreen players not being able to mine in the tutorial.
Fix for players not being able to Sprint in creative after saving in survival with a low hunger bar.
Fix for PvP damage from arrows while PvP is disabled
Fix for pressure plates not working correctly when activated.
Fix for the low food bar hint appearing during a creative game.
Removed player shadow from the Host while Host Invisibility is enabled
Fix for red flowers not spawning in world generation.
Fix for paintings being pushed by pistons
Fix to prevent players who can't eat due to Trust Players being turned off do not get exhausted.
Fixed an issue with the interface disappearing after using the Facebook Share tool.
Fix to limit the number of slimes, ghasts and silverfish that can be spawned in the world.
Fix to prevent the cursor from going offscreen in creative mode.
Fixed issues with capes:
Not displaying correctly while sprint-flying
Not displaying while in the Nether
Not displaying when the player respawns
Fixed bows in Creative Mode so that they do not consume ammo when fired
Reduced the volume of the chest opening/closing sound effect


== References ==


== Navigation ==