CU20  is a version of Xbox One Edition released on February 10, 2016.  
[edit]


== Fixes ==
113 issues fixed
MCCE-48  Water Spreading Creates New Source Blocks.
MCCE-571  Interface Opacity and Tooltip Opacity issues on PS Vita.
MCCE-772  Animals get stuck in corners of fence-type blocks.
MCCE-817  Map walls are broken since CU19 on Xbox One.
MCCE-826  Beacon height limit.
MCCE-829  The end build limit is smaller.
MCCE-831  Player skin is the default skin when holding a map.
MCCE-833  When Interface opacity is down, hotbar faded tools will not show their durability.
MCCE-856  Red sandstone stairs texture incorrect.
MCCE-863  The map does not work as it should unless "View Hand" is turned on.
MCCE-865  Rabbits only appear to spawn naturally in snow biomes.
MCCE-878  Book and quill saving issue: opening and closing an edited (not signed) writeable book deletes the saved pages.
MCCE-885  Feather Falling enchantment does not reduce fall or ender pearl damage.
MCCE-886  Feather Falling IV not working
MCCE-962  Increase to slime spawning.
MCCE-1009  Skulls in the inventory and held in first person are oversized.
MCCE-1024  Raw fish and raw salmon have the same texture in the Natural Texture Pack.
MCCE-1072  In the City Texture Pack it shows smooth red sandstone as a rough block but when you place it, it is smooth.
MCCE-1091  Some fire caused by ghast's fireball explosion is not displayed.
MCCE-1127  Wolfs default collar color had changed from orange to red.
MCCE-1142  Minecraft Capes using incorrect texture.
MCCE-1192  Texture under the bed is the texture of the top of the bed.
MCCE-1202  Map dark when facing north or south.
MCCE-1214  Texture of any potion turns black while holding it in the End or Nether.
MCCE-1349  Penned animals de-spawn when leaving the chunk.
MCCE-1366  When placing a torch under water to reset / refill the air meter will often cause a crash.
MCCE-1367  Melon farm with piston causes crash.
MCCE-1403  Hunger meter always regenerates when switching from peaceful to any other difficulty.
MCCE-1415  Hunger meter depletion glitch
MCCE-1434  Fishing rod bobber sticks to walls.
MCCE-1455  Piston/slime block duplication.
MCCE-1457  TNT can destroy blocks placed well beyond the world border.
MCCE-1476  Skin Pack 6: Faith Connors' Mirror's Edge Skin first person view bugged on Xbox 360.
MCCE-1488  'Getting an Upgrade' trophy/achievement fails to unlock while crafting a stone pickaxe using classic crafting.
Fix for crash when ender chest is mined for a few seconds.
Fix for an intermittent crash when placing beds on snow.
Fix for a crash when a Superflat world session with a combination of multiple planks or wood, lava and air layers is saved.
Fix for a crash after destroying blocks and exploring a Superflat world with multiple sand, air and TNT Layers.
Improved random seed generator to select worlds with a better spread of biomes.
Fix for villagers not harvesting crops from farmland created by the player.
Fix for glass not being able to be broken by hand in Adventure mode.
Fix for an issue where the user renames a 'Spawn Egg' and places it in water, causing debug text to be displayed.
Fix for an issue when the "Body Guard" trophy/achievement does not unlock as expected when the iron golem is built in a certain way.
Fix for an issue where a player cannot see other players after dying and respawning.
Fix for an issue where baby horses appear to be adults after being fed with one golden carrot.
Fix for issue where two primary powers can be applied to the player's character through the beacon UI.
Fix for an issue where a torch and a redstone torch have two hitboxes.
Fix for de-spawn protections not being applied to baby animals created with spawn eggs.
Fix for issue where item quantity for bottle o' enchanting, Nether star, enchanted golden apple, and strength indicator for potions are not affected by Interface Opacity when in Quick Select.
Fix for death message with incorrect text is displayed when the player is killed with a named weapon.
Fix for worlds generating slightly differently every time even with the same seed.
Fix for issue where leather armor, spawn eggs, and potions are displayed improperly when the player is above 256 blocks or is in a place where there is no source of daylight.
Fix for doors, trapdoors, and fence gates missing a sound effect when closing.
Fix for issue where opening certain menus does not cancel the eating, drinking, or bow charging animations.
Fixed an issue where items that have no custom names were not showing up in edit text field in the anvil.
Fix for ocelots not sprinting away from the player.
Fix for pistons and objects pushed by them having corrupted, black textures while animating.
Fix for falling gravel, sand, and red sand blocks displaying with very dark textures.
Fix for issue where texture pack changes to vanilla Minecraft textures if the player joins a friend's session.
Added first person rendering of additional skin parts for the left and right arms.
Fix for an issue when in a split-screen session where at least one player does not get critical hit particles.
Fix for seeing through the base of falling blocks.
Fix for missing mining animation for skulls, heads, signs, chests, and beacons.
Fix for issue where changing the Interface Opacity to specific values causes visual issues with the item and button icons on the HUD.
Fix for issue when traveling directly north or south in a minecart where the player automatically turns to face eastwards.
Fix for missing tooltip for 'Exit' / 'Dismount' actions.
Fix for guardians not being spawned around ocean monuments on a Superflat world.
Fix for city Texture Pack missing textures for multiple kinds of doors while holding in the player's hand
Fix for sign text not displaying.
Fix for cows needing to take 11 hits with hand or 3 hits with any sword to be killed.
Fix for clownfish description displaying incorrect information.

Fix to allow saves that had been well explored to save player state again.

Fix for 'Acquire Hardware' achievement not unlocking when an ingot is removed by the Quick Move button.
Fix for 'Delicious Fish' achievement being able to be be unlocked without cooking a raw fish.
Fix for a crash when adding a Split-screen Client on the host's console while the game player slots are full.


== See also ==
Xbox 360 Edition TU32

PlayStation 3 Edition 1.23
PlayStation 4 Edition 1.23
PlayStation Vita Edition 1.23
Wii U Edition Patch 3


== References ==


== Navigation ==