CU8  is a version of Xbox One Edition released on January 23, 2015.  
[edit]


== Changes ==
City Texture Pack – daylight sensor changed to look more like a solar panel.
Librarian villagers now have a small probability of offering name tags for sale.
One or two witches can now spawn anywhere where the light level is 7 or less, including any biome at night and in poorly-lit caves.
Skeletons and wither skeletons now rarely spawn anywhere in the Nether.


== Fixes ==
Fix for various redstone issues.
Fixed a crash when breaking an item frame containing a map.
Fixed a crash when a dispenser is dispensing water or lava when the dispenser is blocked.
Fix for placing a boat on harmful surfaces causing the game to crash.
Updates to horse and other animal despawning to take into account saddles, saddle bags, leads, armor and nametags.
Fix for stone brick stairs recipe.
Fix for issue where player is able to stay alive with zero hearts in their healthbar.
Fixed an issue in the host options menu in Adventure mode causing options to be set wrongly.
Fix for issue where animals do not stop running after being hit.
Fix for issue where destroying planted pumpkin and melon seeds drops an incorrect number of seeds.
Fix for issue where wither skeletons stop spawning in the Nether when the difficulty is set to Easy from Peaceful.
Changed minecart riding behavior back so that the player turns with the minecart.
If mob griefing is turned off, sheep should not change grass blocks when they eat them.
Fix for TNT minecart exploding despite 'TNT Explodes' option being turned off.
Fix to noteblock fall-off distance so they can be heard further away.
Fix for player legs not being rotated correctly when riding.
Fix for wolf heal tooltip.
Fixed improper tooltip displayed when player is holding a lead and aiming at an aggressive mob.
Fix for potion of Weakness effect description having incorrect values.
Fix for issue where creepers hover off the floor.
Fixed issue where name tags do not appear to work correctly on the wither, iron golems, and wither skeletons.
Fix for player nametags not being colored.
Fix for issue where a horse was not rendering while riding it.
Fix for panorama not updated to reflect the new tutorial world.

Fix for 'Return to Sender' achievement not unlocking after fulfilling its requirement.
Fix for 'Local Brewery' achievement not unlocking after fulfilling its requirement.
Fix for performance issue when moving through large jungle biomes.


== See also ==
Xbox 360 Edition TU20

PlayStation 3 Edition 1.13
PlayStation 4 Edition 1.13
PlayStation Vita Edition 1.13


== References ==


== Navigation ==