TU49  is a version of Xbox 360 Edition released on February 28, 2017.  
[edit]


== Additions ==
Added the Fallout Battle map pack.


== Changes ==
Glass panes and stained glass panes are now rendered 2D in the inventory again to match Java Edition.
Banners are now held the same way as in Java Edition and look the same way as in Java Edition when in the inventory or in item frames.
Updated the fence gate item models to match with Java Edition 1.8.
Heads are now held in hand the same way as in Java Edition.
Stairs are now rotated 90 in the inventory.
The animation for punching while holding a map has been changed to be symmetrical.
Enchantment glint is now much stronger.
The holding position of fishing rods and carrots on a stick in first person has been updated to match with Java Edition 1.8.
2D items no longer render tilted when held in third person.
Items are now positioned a little higher and further left during their eating/drinking animation in first person view to match with snapshot 14w30a.


== Fixes ==
Fix for player's character becoming invisible for other players when they ride a minecart, boat, horse, donkey, pig, or mule, beyond they viewing player's render distance.
Fix for a second bonus chests appearing near the center of the world.
Fix for not being able to place a pig in a mob spawner using a spawn egg.
Fix for crash that would occur if the player dropped an inventory item at the point a Battle round ended.
Fix for crash that would occur if the player had the inventory menu open at the point a Battle round ended.
Fix player not riding a vehicle when they reload a save, if they were riding it when the game was saved.
Fix for crash when saving some particularly large and detailed worlds.
Fix for being able to leave the playable area of the large Cavern Battle Map as a spectator.
Fix for being able to fall off the shipyard Battle map at a certain location without dying.
Fix for being able to fall in a specific area of Frontier Battle map without dying.
Fix for renewable energy not unlocking when the requirements were met for the first time.
Fix for stone axe instead of diamond sword appearing in the chest in the enchanting mini tutorial area upon restarting this tutorial.
Change to allow crafting any wooden door to complete the Door crafting step of the Tutorial.
Fix for "Hit" tooltip not being displayed when player targets crosshair at a polar bear, a creeper, or a squid.
Fix for crash that occurred when shape box is changed a few times in fireworks UI, after creating 64 firework stars.
Fix for a variety of issues that occurred after changing from an online to and offline game.
Fix for End crystals' beam persisting after the ender dragon's respawn is interrupted by destroying the End crystal with tnt explodes' option disabled.
Fix for error that can occur when dropping items while standing in an active Nether portal.
Fix for map vote UI not refreshing itself when the player has it open.


== See also ==

Xbox One Edition CU39
PlayStation 3 Edition 1.42
PlayStation 4 Edition 1.42
PlayStation Vita Edition 1.42
Wii U Edition Patch 18
Nintendo Switch Edition 1.0.1


== References ==


== Navigation ==